# Become a Member - Connected Seeds LibraryConnected Seeds Library

URL: https://www.connectedseeds.org/visit
Location: United Kingdom, London, Tower Hamlets
Coordinates: 51.5219011, -0.0659634

Type: other
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 3)

Description: About the Connected Seeds Library The Connected Seeds Library lives at Spitalfields City Farm in east London. A seed library works a bit like a regular

Full text:
About the Connected Seeds Library
The Connected Seeds Library lives at Spitalfields City Farm in east London. A seed library works a bit like a regular book lending library. In order to borrow seeds from the library you will need to become a member. Members can take seeds home to grow, and are encouraged to return some of the seeds to the library at the end of the season, in order to maintain the stock of available seeds.
How to join
To become a member you will need to bring some form of ID with you and to go through a short induction on how to use the library and make records about your plants. Please call the farm before you come to make sure that someone will be there to help set you up as a member.
Public events
Sometimes the library will be taken out to public events and seed swaps as a way of sharing the knowledge and inspiring others to join and grow from seed.
Upcoming events
Plan your visit
Spitalfields City Farm
Buxton Street, London, E1 5AR
(entrance on Buxton Street next to Thomas Buxton School)
Tel: 0207 247 8762
www.spitalfieldscityfarm.org
View on map
Opening hours
Mondays: closed
Tuesday – Sunday, 10am and 4pm (October – March)
Tuesday – Sunday, 10am to 4:30pm (April – September)
Nearest Tube Stations
Shoreditch High Street – 8 minute walk
Bethnal Green (Mainline) – 8 minute walk
Whitechapel – 10 minute walk
Aldgate East – 15 minute walk
Bethnal Green (Tube) – 15 minute walk
Liverpool Street Station – 20 minute walk
Local Bus Routes
Bus D3 stops on Vallance Road which is a 2 minute walk to the farm.
Barclay’s Bikes
There is a Barclay’s Bike cycle station station just outside the entrance to the farm on Buxton street.

Images: 10 image(s) available.