# Tooting Community Kitchen

URL: https://www.tck.org.uk
Location: United Kingdom, London, Merton
Coordinates: 51.42, -0.16

Type: meals_service
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: high (score: 8)

Description: None

Full text:
Welcome to
Tooting Community Kitchen
Our Goal
Our goal is to help alleviate poverty in South West London by helping feed
the homeless and those in need, and providing them with other vital resources.
Our Organization
At Tooting Community Kitchen, we consistently nourish the hungry and accompany the lonely through our weekly community dining events. By serving delicious meals and fostering engaging conversations, we utilize food that might otherwise be wasted, creating a meaningful impact in our community.
Take Action
Join our TCK Family in whatever way works best for you.
We have a range of ways you can help volunteers just take a look at our volunteers roles page.
We aim to act as a practical and emotional support network providing stability to our guests.
Tooting Community Kitchen
-
Volunteer
We have several different roles from welcoming our guests, cooking up a storm in the kitchen, and helping collect surplus food. All volunteers must be over 18 and no specific experience is required.
-
Donate
Donations don’t just have to be monetary we love receiving home-cooked meals + baked goods from our volunteers.
Please note you must be a registered volunteer and have filled out a cookery form.
-
Partner up
We always love expanding our TCK family with extra partners. Our partners are extremely important and help us accomplish our goals. Please fill out our partner form if you’re interested.
What’s on
-
Scouts Hall, 19 Church Lane, Tooting, Sw17 9PP
Rebel Monday Club
11:30am-15:30pm
Drama, Calligraphy, sewing, embroidery, knitting, and much more. Light lunch and refreshments from our rebel cooks & bakers. -
Scouts Hall, 19 Church Lane, Tooting, Sw17 9PP
Soup Kitchen
1:00-3:30 pm
A hot meal, hot drinks, games & wellbeing.Tooting (Outside Islamic Centre)
145 Upper Tooting Road, SW17 7TJ
6:00-6:30 pm
Open Kitchen Serving hot food + food donations. We start serving food at 6 pm so volunteers to arrive by 5:30 pm -
Scouts Hall, 19 Church Lane, Tooting, Sw17 9PP
Rebel Pilates Session in partnership with Mindworks UK
2:00-3:00pm
Hot Drinks and healthy snacks from our rebel bakers
’Temporarily Unavailable Back Soon’Therapy Music Session in partnership with Mindworks UK
2:00-4:00pm
Hot Drinks and healthy snacks from our rebel bakers
’Temporarily Unavailable Back Soon’ -
Scouts Hall, 19 Church Lane, Tooting, Sw17 9PP
Food Bank (Collections + Guests Only)
08:00-10:00 am -
Tooting (Outside Islamic Centre)
145 Upper Tooting Road, SW17 7TJ 6:00-6:30 pm
Open Kitchen Serving hot food + food donations. We start serving food from 6 pm so volunteers to arrive by 5:30 pmClapham Venn St:
8:00-9:00 pm
Open Kitchen Serving hot food + food parcels
Volunteers to arrive by 7:30 pm to set up
Want to Volunteer?
We are always looking for new volunteers to join the TCK rebels. Take a look at our Volunteer Roles Page and then fill out our form making sure to let us know how you wish to help.
Want to Donate?
We couldn’t do everything we do without the help of our supporters, volunteers, and donations.
Regular gifts help ensure we can keep our community meals running, week in, and week out.
For details on setting up recurring donations directly to our bank account please email us.

Images: 10 image(s) available.