# Sowing Roots: Esiah Levy - Garden Museum

URL: https://gardenmuseum.org.uk/sowingroots/sowing-roots-esiah-levy
Location: United Kingdom, London, Lambeth
Coordinates: 51.49, -0.12

Type: community_garden
Operational level: unknown
Popularity: medium (score: 2)

Description: None

Full text:
“Nobody knew he was going to pass away” she explained, “he went to hospital when his lower back was hurting him, and he collapsed. His wife called the ambulance.”
Esiah and Syreeta’s father came to the UK from Jamaica as a teenager. Their mum was born in the UK and her parents had come from Jamaica. Syreeta describes her father as a disciplinarian. He liked to garden and grew vegetables, leaving little space for his children to play without fear of damaging his plants. She remembers “sweetcorn, there was always tomatoes growing, there was mint … strawberries, onions, runner beans.” Syreeta thinks that food growing is a skill that “people brought with them from India, Jamaica or whatever, just the whole cultivation, rather than just having a Tesco down the road.”
Syreeta thinks that her brother started gardening when he bought his house in Croydon. He ‘was at his calmest when he was in this garden.” He also had an allotment. When Syreeta went travelling to Thailand, Malaysia, Cambodia, Vietnam, Esiah would ask her to bring seeds back, like unusual tomato varieties, “I’d get him a little seed as a souvenir, he liked to have seeds”.
Her fondest memory of her brother growing up was watching him go through different phases “but one thing he stuck to, I have to give him credit, was the gardening.” She thinks that gardening was even more important to him after he became a dad, “I think his son being born was the catalyst that helped him to look at food and growing food…. I think that was more his passion, his little boy incentivised him to grow stuff and eat healthy”. She believes that he was trying to show his son that “you can actually grow your own food and be resourceful, and things can be recycled”.

Images: 10 image(s) available.