# a community fridge for the people living in Southwark to access free healthy food. — The Bridge

URL: https://www.thebridge-uk.org/fridge
Location: United Kingdom, London, Southwark
Coordinates: 51.5, -0.09

Type: food_gifting
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 1)

Description: None

Full text:
The FRIDGE Project:
A Heartfelt Thank You and Goodbye
After lots of thought and care, we've made the difficult decision to close the FRIDGE project.
The FRIDGE grew from our BOX-IT initiative during the pandemic—a time when food support helped us connect deeply with our community. While BOX-IT responded to a crisis, the FRIDGE was always about creating a space based on trust, respect, and kindness—where people could give and take as they needed, without judgement. It was a community effort built on mutual support—core values of The Bridge.
However, things have changed. New food safety rules, growing demand, and limited space have made it hard to keep the project running in the open, supportive way that we like to work with our community. We've also taken time to reflect on our mission and review how our projects fit. With this in mind, we've realised the FRIDGE is not a project that fully delivers our mission to create kind, welcoming spaces for women to focus on health and wellbeing.
This decision wasn’t easy. We’re incredibly grateful to everyone who’s been part of the FRIDGE—whether you used it, supported it, or helped keep it running. Thank you.
Need support? Postcards with info about local food providers are available at our reception and café.
What’s Next?
We’re working on new projects for women at The Bridge, and we’d love for you to be involved. Keep an eye out for a QR code near the FRIDGE to sign up and stay in the loop.
Got questions?
Email us at projects@thebridge-uk.org or chat with the FRIDGE team when you’re in.
who’s it for?
Everyone.
Whether you are looking for FREE fresh food or want to support others by donating something tasty, the fridge is open for all!
*for information on how to donate food please read section below.
where & when?
The fridge is located in our café at The Bridge, 73–81 Southwark Bridge Road, SE1 0NQ. Find us here.
The fridge is accessible every Thursday between 15:00 - 17:00 and Friday between 09:30 – 14:00.
is there a cost?
No. Access to food items in the fridge are FREE for anyone to take home.
You’re always welcome to support our work in other ways if you can, such as volunteering and/or donating to the Charity.
how does it work?
The Bridge aims to provide accessibility for all. There’s no need to be referred and the fridge will run on a ‘take what you need, leave what you can’ basis to encourage mutual support in the community.
Remember to bring your own bag and help us reduce waste!
To receive updates about the FRIDGE project, please register below. You can unsubscribe anytime.
further details…
how does it work?
The Bridge aims to provide accessibility for all. There’s no need to be referred and the fridge runs on a ‘take what you need, leave what you can’ basis to encourage mutual support in the community. Remember to bring your own bag and help us reduce waste! To receive updates about the FRIDGE project, please register below. You can unsubscribe at any time.
when is best to access FRIDGE?
The majority of people access FRIDGE between 3:00 PM and 4:00 PM on Thursdays. Although we try our best to ensure a fair share of items for everyone, because of this initial rush, the amount of food available on Fridays is typically lower than it is on Thursdays.
can you provide bags for me to take food home?
Unfortunately we do not have the resources to provide shopping bags. Occasionally bags for life are donated, which we offer (when we can) if someone has no other way of taking items home. If you have unused plastic bags at home please consider bringing them in for us to redistribute!
why can I only queue for FRIDGE from 2:45 PM?
We are committed to making access to FRIDGE as fair as possible. Allowing people to queue too long in advance for FRIDGE excludes those who cannot spare the time to arrive early, and people coming for the first time who may not be aware of how busy we can get on Thursday afternoons.
Our café space also has many functions; large numbers of people waiting for FRIDGE in advance limits others’ ability to enter and exit, and use the community space. For these reasons we begin issuing tickets on a first-come, first-served basis from 2:45 PM.
how do I know what/how much food will be available?
The food accessible through FRIDGE is donated by the Felix Project and local businesses. As these sources are reliant on surplus items, we have no advance warning as to what/how much will be provided, and the selection and quantity varies week by week. Typically, a good amount of bread, sweet baked goods, and some form of fresh produce is delivered every week.
On Wednesday afternoons we aim to send out a list of the items which will be available when we open the following day. This will come via our mailing list, where we also announce closures affecting FRIDGE. Sign up below.
We are working on improving our selection of suppliers to give people access to better quality produce: watch this space!
register your interest
You don’t need to register to access food from the FRIDGE project, however if you want to receive any updates please fill the form below.
want to donate food?
You can also share surplus food as an individual, e.g. ingredients you’re not going to use in time, things you've grown, if you're going away on holiday or you simply want to support the cause. There are some rules on what you can and cannot put in the fridge (for health and safety reasons) so make sure to check-in with us in advance before you visit. All donations will need to be labelled with date, content and allergies.
if you would like to contact the team about the FRIDGE project, please contact us on 020 7089 6250 or email us at projects@thebridge-uk.org.

Images: 10 image(s) available.