# Food at Mildmay Community Centre - Mildmay Community Centre

URL: https://www.mildmaycommunitycentre.org/food
Location: United Kingdom, London, Islington
Coordinates: 51.55, -0.08

Type: food_bank
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 4)

Description: Food HELPING TO FEED OUR COMMUNITY… The Mildmay Community Food Hub started at the beginning of the COVID pandemic, to support those within our community in need. That need has sadly not gone away. The Food Hub continues to be run by a small team of our dedicated volunteers and currently provides food parcels to […]

Full text:
The Mildmay Community Food Hub started at the beginning of the COVID pandemic, to support those within our community in need. That need has sadly not gone away. The Food Hub continues to be run by a small team of our dedicated volunteers and currently provides food parcels to over 140 households each week.
Every Friday between 11:30AM – 1PM
During October to April
To join the food co-op, please register by telephone 020 7249 8286 or email mildmaycp@gmail.com (Proof of ID required, to register).
As a Mildmay resident you are welcome to come along and collect a weekly parcel of fresh vegetables, ambient food and hygiene products.
The cost is £1.00per adult/child per household per week. Your contribution helps us to purchase and redistribute ambient food and hygiene products.
The service is free for people from the homeless community or to those with no recourse to public funds.
Local volunteers run the co-op – please contact us if you would like to come and help out.
We would like to thank the Felix Trust, Edible London, Neighbourly and City Harvest for their continued support with surplus food donations.
We also supply fresh organic food from our community garden. For further information please refer to Dom’s garden page.
If you are aware of someone who does not have access to a telephone or email or are from our homeless community. Please advise; they are welcome to come to the centre on Friday between 11.30am and 1.30pm to discuss their needs and how we can help.
Donations welcome to help cover costs of food!
We are currently working on a book of recipes that have been coozked by local people at our Thursday cook up session. We are also creating our own hand re-useable handmade tote bags
for you to come along and collect your food parcels in. Watch this space for launch dates.
Tuesday, Wednesday & Thursday (10AM-1PM) – pick up free food for your cat or dog
Centre open from:
9.30am-5.30pm Monday to Friday
Booking enquiries:
10am-2pm Monday to Wednesday

Images: 10 image(s) available.