# OmVed Gardens

URL: https://omvedgardens.com/kitchen-garden-guides/seed-saving
Location: United Kingdom, London, Haringey
Coordinates: 51.57, -0.14

Type: food_education
Operational level: unknown
Popularity: medium (score: 4)

Description: A garden, exhibition and educational space in North London.

Full text:
Kitchen Garden Guide
Seed Saving
Saving seeds preserves heirloom varieties, improves biodiversity and helps crops to become more climate resilient. Learning how to harvest, store, and plant seeds from your favourite plants.
Top Tips
How To Save Seeds From Tomatoes
Vicky's guide to saving seeds from tomatoes
How To Save Seeds From Sunflowers
Vicky's guide to saving seeds from sunflowers
How To Save Seeds From Onions
Vicky's guide to saving seeds from onions
How To Save Seeds From Wildflowers
Vicky's guide to saving seeds from wildflowers
Winnowing - how to clean seeds before storing
Separating the wheat from the chaff. Winnowing is an ancient technique that we still use today to prepare our seeds for the Seed Saving Network.
Planting Peas
Vicky's top tips on planting your peas.
How To Save Seeds From Onions
Vicky's guide to saving seeds from onions
How To Save Seeds From Cucurbits
The cucurbit family includes things like courgettes, squashes and pumpkins.
Recipes
Edible Seed Bars
Jo has a nutty energy bar for you that will keep you going between meals.
Kim & Vicky's Nettle Seed Energy Ball Recipe
Kim and Vicky talk us through the recipe for Nettle Seed Energy Balls, from their bestselling book, The Handmade Apothecary.
Mayan Mexican Seed Dip
This pumpkin seed dip is a ray of sunshine in these colder months of the year, enjoy!
Stories
EarthLore
As people have moved away from rural farming communities to cities in search of work, our relationship with land and seed for food growing has changed from small scale production to large mono-agriculture.
Banking Our Future
Ethnobotanist Harriet Gendall joinsa team of scientists on a quest to bank the endangered flora of Kyrgyzstan. Their ambitious venture reveals how seed banking not only supports the flourishing of global biodiversity but can help germinate more meaningful alliances between people and plants.
Biodynamic by Nature
André Tranquilini is the estate manager at Waltham Place, a 220 acre organic and biodynamic farm and garden in Berkshire, UK. Originally from Brazil, he has worked extensively as a market gardener and outdoor teacher, and is a founding member of the biodynamic seed company, Living Seeds, in Portugal.
Dispersal
Seeds come in as many different shapes, sizes and designs as the plants they are to become. They float, they fly, they stick and they burst. A photographic exploration of the structures and dispersal of seeds.
Interview with Vicky Chown
Vicky Chown is a medical herbalist, forager and gardener. She teaches permaculture and urban food growing at OmVed Gardens - where she also co-organises the Seed Saving Network - a biodiverse community of seed savers in London and across the UK.

Images: 10 image(s) available.