# The Community Food Hub | Freedom's Ark

URL: https://www.freedomsark.org/community-projects/the-community-food-hub
Location: United Kingdom, London, Redbridge
Coordinates: 51.58, 0.07

Type: food_bank
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 3)

Description: None

Full text:
Opening times
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday: 5 pm to 6 pm
Saturday: 3 pm
The current situation
Our world has entered unprecedented times with so much uncertainty about the future. Safety has taken on a new meaning as new words dominate our languages such as social distancing and self-isolation. Some individuals and families are struggling with the need to find a daily provision of food to survive.
But there remains hope as individuals, families and neighbours rally together giving food and essentials items to food banks and hubs.
Here at the Peace Alliance, we believe in that hope. We believe in a H.O.P.E that’s Helps Other People Excel.
As a response to the COVID-19 Pandemic, The Community Food Hub is opening its doors several days a week to children and families surviving on a low or no income, older people who are isolated and alone, people who are homeless – these are some of the hardest hit by Coronavirus.
We also supply food to organisations and individuals like the North London Community Consortium, Blooming Scent and others who provide hot cooked foods to frontline key workers in the NHS, other agencies and older people.
We believe that together we can win this battle and your contributions will go a long way.
How you can help
Your financial support will enable us to:
- Continue to provide the ongoing hub service at the Tottenham Town Hall by opening our doors 5 days a week to children and families surviving on a low income, older people who are isolated and alone, people who are homeless – these are some of the hardest hit by the effects of the Coronavirus;
- Provide crises management for vulnerable service users;
- Purchase an industrial fridge and freezer to store the vast quantities of food that we have been receiving during the pandemic.
- Provide ongoing administrative support and facilities management.
- Increase our delivery services for those who are unable to attend due to underlying health issues, disability, or age.
- Preserve the dignity of those accessing our service whilst supporting them out of poverty.
- Act as a referral agency to essential services that will help users rebound in a post-COVID-19 world.
Click on the Donate button to help us achieve our target.

Images: 10 image(s) available.