# Home | Your Local Pantry

URL: https://www.yourlocalpantry.co.uk
Location: United Kingdom, London, Hillingdon
Coordinates: 52.47, -2.03

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: high (score: 6)

Description: None

Full text:
Your Local Pantry
Your Local Pantries are all about dignity, choice and hope - bringing people together around food!
- They are set up to look and feel like a shop, with fresh fruit and veg and commercial fridges and freezers.
- Members choose to join and pay a small weekly membership, choosing at least 10 items from a wide selection of groceries.
- Members benefit from affordable food provision and substantial cost savings, with members typically now save £27 each time they visit a Pantry.
- Pantries are about so much more than food - they give members community, confidence, volunteering opportunities and job skills, wrap around support and improved physical health and mental wellbeing.
- Pantries are run by a local organisation, with ongoing support from us.
To read about the impact of Your Local Pantries in communities Social Impact Report
To learn about what YLP offers organisations who are looking to open a Pantry Why YLP?
Social impact of Your Local Pantries
The figures below show you some of the impacts of the Your Local Pantry network
saved each year
by a household visiting the Pantry each week
Pantries prevent crisis food bank use and acute hunger
71% of Pantry members who had previously used food banks were able to reduce or completely stop their food bank usage, after joining Pantries.
people
benefiting from Pantry membership in nearly 12,500 households
of members
say joining a Pantry has improved their household finances
of members
say membership has been good for their mental health and 68% say it has been good for their physical health
Pantries also provide vital points of social connection
82% of members feel more connected to their community and many have made new friends.
Pantries also help more holistically
Pantries also help more holistically, connecting members to wider services and wraparound support - 62% of members have accessed at least one form of additional support such as debt advice, income maximisation services or social and nutrition activities.
From Crisis to Resilience: The Power of Comm...
Read ArticleMeadows Food Pantry ‘blown away’ by generous...
Read ArticleMeet the UK's youngest Pantry team!
Read Article".. because the cost of the fuel prices have increased ... we just haven’t been able to save. We’re just lucky that we’ve got this. It provides me with a sense of security, knowing that we have the food to eat and we don’t have to worry about finding a large amount of money to do family shops.
"Merthyr Tydfil

Images: 10 image(s) available.