# ‎Too Good To Go: End Food Waste App - App Store

URL: https://apps.apple.com/gb/app/too-good-to-go-end-food-waste/id1060683933
Location: United Kingdom, London, Westminster
Coordinates: 51.5074, -0.1278

Type: other
Operational level: commercial
Popularity: medium (score: 1)

Description: Download Too Good To Go: End Food Waste by Too Good To Go on the App Store. See screenshots, ratings and reviews, user tips and more games like Too Good To Go:…

Full text:
Limited Time: Summer Rewards
Make more of summer with hourly £5 rewards on Thursdays, from 10am - 7pm. Check out the app to claim yours.
Too Good To Go: End Food Waste
Save meals at great prices
Free
Too Good To Go is your smart way to enjoy tasty food at great value, while doing good for the planet. Winner of the 2023 ‘Cultural Impact’ category at the prestigious Apple App Store Awards, the #1 app to reduce food waste helps you save delicious, unsold snacks, meals, and ingredients from local shops, cafés, supermarkets, restaurants, and top brands—all at great prices.
In a world where 40% of food produced goes to waste each year, reducing food waste is the #1 action we can take to help tackle climate change. With Too Good To Go, you can unlock affordable meals and grocery items while helping to save the planet. Together, we have the power to make a real difference.
HOW TOO GOOD TO GO WORKS:
EXPLORE AND DISCOVER
Download the app to explore a map showing nearby restaurants, cafés, bakeries, supermarkets or trusted brands offering good food at a great price, ready to be rescued.
SAVE YOUR SURPRISE BAG OR TOO GOOD TO GO PARCEL
Browse a variety of Surprise Bags filled with tasty, unsold food—whether it’s sushi, pizza, burgers, or fresh fruits and veggies. Prefer to get your favourite food brands delivered to you? Save a Too Good To Go Parcel packed with good food from the brands you love, at great prices.
AFFORDABLE EATS
Save a Surprise Bag or a Too Good To Go Parcel at ½ price or less.
RESERVE YOUR SAVE
Confirm your purchase through the app to reserve your Surprise Bag and rescue these delicious meals from going to waste. By rescuing food, you save money and help fight food waste.
ENJOY
Collect your Surprise Bag at the scheduled time, or have your Too Good To Go Parcel delivered directly to you.
WHY TOO GOOD TO GO?:
WALLET-FRIENDLY INDULGENCE
Enjoy quality meals at affordable prices, satisfying both your taste buds and your wallet.
VARIETY AND CHOICE
Too Good To Go partners with a wide selection of local favourites and top brands, offering everything from sushi, pizza, baked and fresh goods to easy-to-store staple grocery items such as snacks, drinks, sweets or pasta.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Each meal saved avoids CO2e emissions and the unnecessary use of water and land resources. By rescuing food from going to waste, you take a step towards a greener, cleaner planet.
EASY PURCHASE PROCESS
The app’s simple and user-friendly interface makes it easy to browse, choose, and save Surprise Bags or Too Good To Go Parcels.
CONVENIENCE
Pick up your Surprise Bag at the designated time, or have a Too Good To Go Parcel delivered directly to you.
JOIN THE TOO GOOD TO GO COMMUNITY
Join the community of food lovers making a positive impact on the environment. Download the app now and start reducing food waste, bite by bite.
Reducing food waste is a key action to help tackle climate change. For more information, visit tgtg.to/claims
Editors’ Choice
Thank you for helping reduce food waste together with millions of other people like you! In this app release, we’ve fixed some bugs to improve app stability and performance. We hope you’ll enjoy the update!
The developer, Too Good To Go, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. For more information, see the developer’s privacy policy .
Data Used to Track You
The following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies:
- Purchases
- Identifiers
Data Linked to You
The following data may be collected and linked to your identity:
- Purchases
- Location
- Contact Info
- User Content
- Identifiers
- Usage Data
- Diagnostics
Data Not Linked to You
The following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:
- Identifiers
The developer has not yet indicated which accessibility features this app supports. Learn More
- Provider
- Too Good To Go ApS
- Size
- 149 MB
- Category
- Food & Drink
- Compatibility
Requires iOS 15.0 or later.
- iPhone
Requires iOS 15.0 or later. - iPad
Requires iPadOS 15.0 or later. - iPod touch
Requires iOS 15.0 or later. - Apple Vision
Requires visionOS 1.0 or later.
- iPhone
- Languages
English and 15 more
- English, Basque, Catalan, Czech, Danish, Dutch, French, Galician, German, Italian, Japanese, Norwegian Bokmål, Polish, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish
- Age Rating
4+
- 4+
- Copyright
- © Too Good To Go ApS

Images: 0 image(s) available.