# Help with food

URL: https://www.towerhamlets.gov.uk/lgnl/advice_and_benefits/cost-of-living/Help-with-food.aspx
Location: United Kingdom, London, Tower Hamlets
Coordinates: 51.5322207, -0.0310226

Type: food_bank
Operational level: unknown
Popularity: low (score: 0)

Description: If you are struggling to access food for yourself or your family there are a number of food aid organisations in Tower Hamlets that can help.

Full text:
Help with food
Tips for managing food bills
Our tips for managing food bills section gives more information to help you juggle the cost of your food bills.
How to reduce food waste
A typical family throws away £60 worth of food every month on average. For some great tips on how you can reduce food waste visit Love Food, Hate Waste.
Organisations providing help with food
If you are struggling to get food for yourself or your family there are a number of food aid organisations in Tower Hamlets that can help. Use our help with food map to find organisations which may be able to support you.
Types
- Open Access
A food bank that anyone can go to for food - Limited Access/by referral only
A Food bank that needs someone to refer you into the service. Please contact the organisation for more details - School food provision
A food bank or food aid service that specifically works with students and parents who attend the school - Hot meals service/Hostel
Provides hot meals or premade goods to residents
Tower Hamlets FOOD Stores – (Limited Access/referral only)
The council has set up several FOOD Stores in the borough that are there to support people who cannot afford enough food for themselves or their families.
These are places you can go to pick up a week’s worth of food in exchange for a small membership fee. At the same time, you will be supported in other areas that you might need help with.
This includes help with issues around
- housing
- benefits access
- employment and more.
To find out more or to become a member email thefoodstore@towerhamlets.gov.uk with your name, address, postcode, date of birth and contact number.
Bow Food Bank – (Open Access)
Bow Foodbank, Bow Community Hall, William Place, London, E3 5ED. For more information please visit the Bow Food Bank website.
Ensign Youth Club – (Open Access)
Opening times: Friday 10am to 1pm
Wellclose Square, E1 8HY
Contact: info@ensign.org.uk
Bow Muslim Cultural Centre – (Open Access)
Opening times: Friday 11am to 3pm
246 Bow Road, London, E3 3AP
Contact: info@bowcentralmosque.co.uk
St Dunstan's Food Bank – (Open Access)
Opening times: Tuesday 11am to 3pm and Friday 11am to 3pm
St. Dunstans & All Saints Church, Stepney High St, London, E1 0NR
SACC Food Bank – (Limited Access/by referral only)
Opening times: Quarterly on Wednesdays from 3 to 4.30pm
St Anne’s Catholic Church, Underwood Road, E1 5AW
Contact: underwoodroad@rcdow.org.uk or 020 7247 7833
Referrals can be discussed by email or contact number.
Food for Aldgate – (Limited Access/by referral only)
Opening times: Friday 1 to 3pm
Toynbee Hall, 28 Commercial Street, London, E1 6AB
Contact: Paul.wilson@eastendhomes.net or Twitter @FoodForAldgate.
Food for Mile End – (Limited Access/by referral only)
Opening times: Thursday 2.30 to 4pm
Southern Grove Community Centre, Southern Grove, London, E3 4FX
Contact: billy.howell@eastendhomes.net
Please be aware this food bank prioritises East End Homes residents.
Women’s Inclusive Team – (Limited Access/by referral only)
Opening times: Appointment provided after referral
Mayfield House 202 Cambridge Heath Road, E2 9LJ
Contact: 07415 372 664 or email shakilaa@wit.org.uk
Neighbours in Poplar – (Limited Access/by referral only)
Please be aware that this service is only available for residents in E14 postcodes
Opening times: Tuesday 10.30am to 12pm
St. Matthias Community Centre, 113 Poplar High Street, London, E14 0AE
Contact: 020 7531 0190 or email enquiries@neighboursinpoplar.com
Our Forgotten Neighbours – (Open Access – Hot meals service)
Opening times: Thursday 5pm
Outside Toynbee Hall, Community Centre, 28 Commercial St, E1 6LS
Contact: Email: info@ourforgottenneighbours.net and Tel: 07496530878
Visit the our forgotten neighbours website for more information.
Come early to avoid disappointment
FoodCycle Bow Road – (Open Access – Hot meals service)
Opening times: Friday 7pm
Bow Road Methodist Church, 1 Merchant Street, London, E3 4LY
Contact: bowroad@foodcycle.org.uk
FoodCycle Bow Road welcomes anyone to attend as a guest and enjoy a FREE hot meal. No need to book. Just turn up on the day!
Dorset Community Food Hub – (Open Access – Hot meals service)
Opening times: Thursday 12 to 3pm
Ground floor, former Dorset library, E2 8QX
Edward Gibbons House – (Hostel)
Opening times: 24 hours
1 Parmiter Street, E2 9NG
For more information please visit Providence Row website.
Hague Primary School - School food provision (Pupils and families only)
Opening times: Friday 2 to 3.30pm
Hague Primary School, E2 0BP
For more information please ask at the school office.
Stewart Headlam Primary School - School food provision (Pupils and families only)
Opening times: Monday – Friday 8.40am to 3.40pm
Tapp Street, London, E1 5RE
For more information please ask at the school office.
Wellington Primary School Food and Hygiene bank - School food provision (Pupils and families only)
Opening times: Tuesday 2 to 3pm
Wellington Way, Bow, E3 4NE
Contact: admin@wellingtonprimary.org
Complete the online request form.
St Elizabeth Pop Up Kitchen - School food provision (Pupils and families only)
Opening times: Friday 3.45 to 5pm
St Elizabeth Primary School, entrance on Waterloo Gardens, E2 9JY
Contact the school office school@st-elizabeth.uk
For more information please visit St Elizabeth School website / Caritas Twitter page.
Bygrove School - School food provision (Pupils and families only)
Opening times: Monday – Friday (Term Time Only)
Bygrove Street, E14 6DN
For more information please visit the Bygrove School website
Langdon Park School - School food provision (Pupils and families only)
Opening times: Monday – Friday 8am to 4pm
Bright Street, London, E14 0RZ
For more information please ask at the school office.
Olga Primary School Foodbank - School food provision (Pupils and families only)
Opening times: Friday 3 to 4pm
Olga Primary School, E3 5DN
Contact: 020 8981 7127
For more information please ask at the school office.
Globe Primary School - School food provision (Pupils and families only)
Opening times: Friday from 3pm
Globe Primary School, E2 0JH
For more information please visit Globe Primary School website.
William Davis Food Bank - School food provision (Pupils and families only)
Opening times: Friday 2 to 3pm
William Davis School, E2 6ET
Contact: 020 7739 1511

Images: 3 image(s) available.