# Support Us | Edible London

URL: https://ediblelondon.org/support-us
Location: United Kingdom, London, Haringey
Coordinates: 51.5820987, -0.0688508

Type: meals_service
Operational level: ngo_led
Popularity: high (score: 5)

Description: Be part of the change and the magic we are creating in our community. Donate, Volunteer or Invest in Edible London.

Full text:
Make A Donation
Helps support 10 meals worth of ingredients being distributed to our community free of charge!
As little as 50p
buys a meal!
As a Non-Profit Company, we heavily rely on donations, fundraising and grants.
If you can help us with a one-off or regular donation, we will be able to continue facilitating volunteer sessions on our farming sites, compensate our chef to cook once a week for the community and fairly employ staff who are doing an incredible job feeding people.
For small and regular donations, please use the PayPal buttons below. For larger donations of £500 or more, please use the form and we will contact you to make arrangements. Thank you so much for your support!!
FAQ
Farming Heroes
Do you have green fingers and want to get them into some soil?
We’d love for you to help us create and nurture our Edible spaces around North London and Haringey. We always have lots to help out with. Tasks vary depending on the time of year but will generally include: seed sowing, pruning, plant maintenance, watering, weeding, composting and harvesting.
All our sites are organic and use no chemicals or pesticides. No previous farming experience is required and our friendly facilitators are on hand to give you tips and advice.
Delivery Pilots
If you have your own vehicle and like meeting people, why not join our fleet of speedy food donation delivery drivers?
Driving shifts are usually Monday to Friday in the afternoon or evening. We deliver to locations all over North London. As a driver, you will play a key part in transporting rescued food from and to our partners who feed people.
Food Surplus Superstars
Food surplus sorting is at the heart of Edible London.
As a food surplus volunteer you will help us save perfectly good fruit and vegetables from landfill and prepare food parcels to give to those in need in our community. Our friendly food surplus team operates from our HQ in Stamford Hill and is run by our Chief Operations Officer and absolute beautiful human Victoria. Guaranteed good vibes, love and passion on every shift!
Community Givers
If you want to make people feel good and like to be part of our outreach programme.
You want to meet people and to hand over love? Helping with our community giving events goes from setting up the space to interact with the community, cook vegetarian meals and provide what people need: Food and love. Currently every Thursday at Highway House.
Zero Waste Creatives
We have all sorts of creative projects on the go, whether making eco bricks, upcycling clothes, art projects or carpentry, all skills and burning passions are appreciated and celebrated at Edible London!
What people are saying...
FAQ
Do Something Incredible.
Help Make London Edible.
Together we can not only tackle food poverty, but start sowing the seed for a future that eradicates it, full stop.
Starting first in London, our mission is to eradicate food poverty by bringing fresh food to those who need it the most.
Using a circular economy social-enterprise model, we enable disadvantaged people to eat more nutritious diets, empower sustainable and ethically sound solutions to food poverty, support greater food education, as well as creating local jobs and volunteering opportunities.
We also aim to help build resilience in our communities through personal case work, in-house counselling, providing meaning and purpose, as well as through easily accessible growing spaces in urban environments, and the whole host of benefits that come with this both physically and mentally.
We achieve this by...
Providing food infrastructure in deprived London boroughs
We work with local groups and charities, providing fresh fruit and vegetables to frontline organisations who use our produce to create healthy meals for people experiencing food poverty.
Reducing waste and redirecting good food to the communities who need it
We receive and sort large quantities of surplus fruit and vegetables that would otherwise go to landfill.
Growing food for communities, in the community, by the community
By growing fresh produce and increasing skills and awareness around gardening and food waste, we help communities build resilience to food poverty.
Empowering and facilitating community spirit
We mobilise large numbers of volunteers, bringing skills development and practical work experience to an economically deprived area. We also provide training, outreach, and in-house counselling to improve the resilience in our communities.
In 2020 we achieved a massive milestone, providing 1 million meals worth of ingredients to those who need it most. To continue this vital work, we are looking for significant corporate sponsors to work with us and help develop our operations further.
By joining our Edible London family you will:
- Help us provide meals to deprived London communities - for every 50p donated, a free meal is created
- Receive a proud spot on the Partners page of our website
- Social media promotion and logo assets for your website
- PR & social media content opportunities
- Impact reporting
- Volunteer opportunities and corporate days at our growing sites
- Support with starting your own growing project
As little as
50p
Buys a meal
National Lottery Funding
London Community Impact Awards Food Bank of the Year Award Winner
To find out more, please email us at
As the lead partner for Haringey Council's Covid-19 Emergency Food Response during the first lockdown, Edible London were absolutely critical in helping to mobilising this successful operation providing over 50,000 meals worth of ingredients in just one week at its peak. And off the back of this partnership, seeing them continue on independently and go on to hit a milestone of providing over 1,000,000 meals worth of ingredients being distributed in the space of just 9 months has been nothing short of incredible.
Cllr Mark Blake
-- (Cabinet Member for Communities, Haringey)

Images: 10 image(s) available.