# Coronation Food Project - King Charles III Charitable Fund

URL: https://www.kccf.org.uk/coronation-food-project
Location: United Kingdom, London, Westminster
Coordinates: 51.4987483, -0.1329653

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: government_funded
Popularity: medium (score: 1)

Description: None

Full text:
Inspired by His Majesty King Charles III, the Coronation Food Project is a ground-breaking response to an urgent and growing challenge – how can we reduce waste whilst also reducing hunger?
The story so far
The Coronation Food Project was created to re-imagine our supply chains and fundamentally reduce food waste. By working together with the food industry, we aim to solve two problems at once: tackling waste and reducing hunger.
The project was launched by The King and Queen in November 2023. On our first anniversary, we were delighted to report significant and tangible progress towards achieving our goals. This is a direct result of the incredible efforts of people from across different sectors. From our landmark food industry initiative, which is unlocking additional sources of food, to our grassroots small grants, we’re already making a difference for communities across the UK – learn more by reading our food rescue stories.
Together we are driving positive change in the UK’s food system, from surplus to sustainable. And, at the same time, we’re helping families and community groups to access the food and support they need to make their own futures more sustainable.
The Project aims to create a fairer and more sustainable future by:
Support us
The Coronation Food Project is being made possible through the generous support of philanthropic organisations and individuals.
We are very grateful to the Project’s Development Committee, Chaired by Dori Dana-Haeri, for their support in raising funds for this initiative.
Dori said ‘I was astonished by the scale of both food waste and food poverty in the UK, so I wanted to do something practical to help and I am delighted to be volunteering for the Coronation Food Project. If you share our mission to reduce food waste and feed more communities in need, we’d welcome you on board as a donor or partner.’

Images: 10 image(s) available.