# Plan Zheroes - The Zero Food Waste Heroes

URL: https://planzheroes.org
Location: United Kingdom, London, Westminster
Coordinates: 51.5074, -0.1278

Type: food_gifting
Operational level: ngo_led
Popularity: medium (score: 4)

Description: The Zero Food Waste Heroes

Full text:
Donate your surplus food or non-food items, support your local community, reduce waste and help the environment.
Please consider supporting our work. With your financial support we can get even more food to vulnerable people.
Our charity cookbook celebrates childhood memories of enjoying food, and recipes that help to use up surplus ingredients.
Recipes from our community of traders, volunteers, staff and charities show to use the surplus ingredients that live in our refrigerators, freezers and cupboards, in a wonderful variety of ways that mirror the diversity of our community.
Food businesses
Quickly and safely donate your surplus food to nearby charities.
Charities and community groups
Sign up to access free donations of surplus food available near you.
Volunteers
Help get great surplus food to good causes. There’s lots of ways you can get involved!
* Data from 2010 – 2024. We use WRAP’s figure of the potential saving in emissions generated by using food that would otherwise go to waste versus the production of additional food. This does not take into account CO₂ emissions generated if a vehicle used to deliver/collect the food donation.
- If you are able to donate to our cause
- If you work for/are a business that has surplus food to donate
- If you are a charity that needs / redistributes food
- If you can collect and deliver food or spread the word
- If you have a vehicle and can help to transport food
Tom Hunt
Tom is an eco-chef, activist, food writer and co-owner of award winning restaurant Poco Tapas Bar. Tom prioritises people and the environment within his work and believes in a fair global food system where our actions benefit the environment. During his formative years Tom worked with Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall at River Cottage and on the River Cottage TV series. He is a Guardian columnist and writes for Vegetarian Living, Foodism and Jellied Eel magazines. Tom is also an ambassador for the Fairtrade Foundation and the Soil Association.
Jeremy Pang
Jeremy is founder of Asian cookery school School of Wok. His new show Jeremy Pang’s Asian Kitchen has just finished airing on ITV1 and he regularly appears on Channel 4’s Sunday Brunch. He is the author of three cookbooks – Chinese Unchopped, Hong Kong Diner and School of Wok. His Wok for 1000 initiative, a large scale corporate cookery class that produces 1,000 meals for charity, aims to raise awareness about the issue of food poverty. All profits from the event are donated to Plan Zheroes.
Kristen Frederickson
Kristen Frederickson is a former New York City art historian and gallerist, and enthusiastic occasional curator. She has lived in London since 2006, working as a food blogger and as a freelance cookery writer. She is the author of Tonight at 7.30: One Family’s Life at the Table and Second Helpings with her daughter Avery Curran providing the photographs for both. Kristen is also Members Communications Director for the Guild of Food Writers. She and her husband John have been volunteering with us at Borough Market since 2019.
Please consider supporting our work. With your financial support we can get even more food to vulnerable people.
07505 617 844 info@planzheroes.org
Plan Zheroes – The Zero Food Waste Heroes is a C.I.O – Registered Charity Number 1154291 (21 October 2013)

Images: 10 image(s) available.