# The Big Lunch 2026 | Eden Project Communities

URL: https://www.edenprojectcommunities.com/the-big-lunch
Location: United Kingdom, London, Westminster
Coordinates: 51.5074, -0.1278

Type: food_bank
Operational level: ngo_led
Popularity: low (score: 0)

Description: The Big Lunch brings neighbours and communities together to share friendship, food and fun. Get your free pack and start planning!

Full text:
The Big Lunch
This year, The Big Lunch and The Big Help Out are teaming up on 5-8 June for a weekend of friendship, food, fun and action – and everyone’s invited! It’s one big do – a chance to meet, eat and lend a hand locally in the UK’s biggest celebration of community.
Big or small, what you do is up to you – a BBQ with the neighbours, a local litter pick or helping a good cause for the day – we can all do something!
It’s easy, it’s fun and it’s for everyone – so what will you do?
How about one big do?
If you’re a seasoned Big Luncher, why not get everyone together to lend a hand at your event this year?
That might be setting everyone to scrub down the benches in your park, doing some gardening for someone who’d appreciate it, or asking people to bring food to donate to a food bank. It’s sure to give everyone that feel-good feeling!
Or if you’re part of a community group or organisation which has amazing volunteers, you could hold a Big Lunch to say a big thank you for their time. It’s a perfect event to hold as part of Volunteers’ Week (1-7 June 2026) as part of the Month of Community.
Get free resources for your do
We have everything you need to start planning your do, including a guide, poster, invitations and more.
Sign up to have a handy link emailed straight to you!
“Our Big Lunches are based around what the community want it to be – when there are new neighbours who arrive on the street, they bring new ideas to the table. It’s reinforced our community spirit!”
Ian, Norwich
Month of Community
The Big Lunch will once again be part of a whole Month of Community this June and there are plenty of ways you can get involved!
From events and celebrations to ways you can support a variety of charities, campaigns and good causes. Our wonderful partners are putting on a Month of Community with something for everyone this year.
Those who make The Big Lunch possible
As a charity, our varied programme of activities and events, including The Big Lunch, is only possible due to the continuing generosity of our partner organisations.
Become a Big Lunch Ambassador
Becoming a Big Lunch Ambassador is a great way to share and amplify the Big Lunch message of bringing people together to enjoy friendship, food and fun.
You’ll help to build connections that promote health and wellbeing while helping to reduce isolation and loneliness in your community.
What could you do?
The big do
The Big Lunch and The Big Help Out are teaming up!
Councils and housing associations
Councils can really help to encourage and support people in their areas…
Schools and colleges
The Big Lunch and The Big Help Out can be linked to…
Businesses, charities and community groups
Discover how The Big Lunch can bring big benefits to your business…

Images: 10 image(s) available.