# Food Justice: Billboard Campaign - We Feed the World

URL: https://wefeedtheuk.org/event/food-justice-billboards
Location: United Kingdom, London, Hackney
Coordinates: 51.5741299, -0.0853

Type: other
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 4)

Description: Find our billboards across North London. View our outdoor photo and poetry exhibits showcasing community food growing. Full location details.

Full text:
North London
30 September – 13 October 2024
Free event
Across North London, Arpita Shah‘s compelling images will sit alongside beautiful stanzas by Zena Edwards on six Buildhollywood billboards. The words and photographs together encapsulate our London We Feed The UK story, which follows two Black-led community growing initiatives.
Paulette Henry and Pamela Shor run Black Rootz in Haringey. They are reconnecting Londoners with ancestral knowledge of the soil and working to achieve food sovereignty through an indigenous, intergenerational approach.
In neighbouring boroughs Tottenham and Enfield, Sandra Salazar D’eca runs Go Grow With Love. She is supporting women of African and Caribbean heritage to nurture a symbiotic relationship with their local land.
Through her photographs, Arpita Shah explores the intersections of culture and identity. Having lived between India, Ireland and the Middle East before settling in the UK, she reflects her own migratory experience in her photographs of these women and the powerful projects they are running. By rooting Black People and People of Colour in British land, Sandra, Paulette and Pamela are growing grassroots solutions for racial equality, land reparations and nature connection.
Zena Edwards is an award-winning poet of Afri-Carib-British heritage, with international collaborators including Hugh Masekela, Baaba Maal and Akram Khan. The billboards will intersperse images with excerpts from the poem she has written for We Feed The UK: ‘Tincture’.
If you are inspired by this campaign, we have partnered with The Landworkers’ Alliance, who offer pathways for becoming part of an agroecological system that furthers social and environmental justice. Meet them, and all of our contributors, at our community seed swap event.
On 9 October 2024, below our two billboards on West Green Road, people will meet, swap seeds, and exchange stories in an event bringing together art, culture, and community.
Billboard Locations
- Seven Sisters Road, N4 2ND
- Seven Sisters Tube, N15 5JT
- Seven Sisters Overground, N15 5EN
(until 6 October 2024)
- West Green Road, N15 5NP (x2)
A huge thank you to creative street advertising specialists Buildhollywood, for helping us engage more people with nearby community growing initiatives. This sponsorship will reach new supporters across high-footfall locations local to Black Rootz and Go Grow With Love.

Images: 1 image(s) available.