# UKHarvest food rescue and education charity

URL: https://www.ukharvest.org.uk
Location: United Kingdom, London, Westminster
Coordinates: 51.5074, -0.1278

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: ngo_led
Popularity: low (score: 0)

Description: We are on a mission to eliminate hunger and food waste through the redistribution of quality surplus food. Likewise, to provide a framework for food rescue that can be replicated.

Full text:
OUR IMPACT
9.5 million
Meals served to the community
20,500
Participants reached through our education programmes
4,008
Tonnes of surplus food rescued to date
What we do at UKHarvest
Community
Community Food Hub
Get the support you need whilst helping to fight food waste at our Community Food Hubs. Access affordable food, learn low-cost cooking, and find support on a range of social issues. Just bring a bag and a small suggested donation.
Find Your Local Food Hub
NOURISHed
Improve your cookery skills and make the most of your food through our online resource hub and engaging sessions. Learn how to make small and effective changes to the way you plan, shop and cook your meals, suitable for any budget.
Get Support
We have compiled a list of charities, organisations and government schemes that offer support, from mental health services to food providers. Every national and local organisation specialises in helping the community in different ways.
We are on a mission to reduce food waste increase food security by enriching and educating our communities.
UKHarvest rescues surplus food to prevent it from going to waste
We collect food that would have gone to landfill from across the food chain and make sure it is available to those in need and those wishing to learn about cooking, storing and saving money through free food education, NOURISHed.
The food is distributed throughout our community, to schools and to local charities
Rescued Food is used to feed those in need
Latest Events
Learn More
Donate Food
We have a fleet of vans rescuing surplus food all across the South of England. Help us fight food waste and feed our community by donating your surplus food.
Volunteer
Do you have a passion for the environment, your local community, or food? Volunteer today and help make a difference by reducing food waste and alleviating hunger.
About Us
UKHarvest is a not-for-profit perishable food rescue operation and education charity, eliminating hunger and food waste. We support local charities by rescuing food that would have gone to waste and deliver it directly to charities.

Images: 10 image(s) available.