# Glossary — ADFS

URL: https://www.alliancefordignifiedfoodsupport.org.uk/glossary
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN2
Coordinates: 50.8225, -0.1372

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: high (score: 13)

Description: None

Full text:
OUR GLOSSARY
Affordable Food Schemes: Projects which offer good quality, low cost food, which is often subsidised. These projects are typically positioned in low income neighbourhoods, where access to fresh local food is limited (Brighton & Hove Food Partnership). Affordable Food Schemes can include community supermarkets and pantries, as well as affordable veg boxes and low cost community cafes. Some affordable food schemes are dependent on charitable grants, donations or volunteer labour, and some operate as a social enterprise.
Cash First: A cash first approach to food insecurity means prioritising income-focused solutions to address financial hardship (IFAN). A cash first approach to food insecurity means everyone can access a Living Income whether through social security payments or wages, as well as crisis support at local authority level by way of cash payments. Frontline providers might take a cash first approach by distributing cash payments or vouchers in lieu of food parcels. Local authorities can deliver cash first schemes that provide support directly to recipients via a cash payment, rather than by subsidising food banks and other charitable food aid.
Community Food Support: Any food provision delivered by voluntary, charitable or community groups that exists outside of the traditional marketplace. Some community food support projects are dependent on charitable grants, donations or volunteer labour, and some operate as a social enterprise.
Community Fridge: A space where everyone can share surplus food, including donations from local food businesses, producers and households (Hubbub). They are located within a particular town or area and anyone in the community can take food from them for free and put food in to share. Hubbub coordinates the UK Community Fridge Network, which includes over 200 Community Fridges.
Community Members: A catch all term for anyone who uses a community food support service. In order to promote dignity, organisations may refer to their community members using different terms such as customers.
Community Supermarket or Pantry: Membership schemes which offer low cost food to people, either for a small subscription fee or on a pay-as-you-feel basis. There are typically fewer eligibility criteria to join a community supermarket or pantry and members can often self-refer. Some community supermarkets and pantries are dependent on charitable grants, donations or volunteer labour, and some operate as a social enterprise.
Food Bank: One type of community food support. Food banks typically provide food for free or for a nominal charge, and there are usually certain criteria in place which determine access, typically proof of low income or a referral from a support agency. In the UK there are thousands of food banks – around 1400 are part of the Trussell Trust network, as well as at least 1172 independent food banks (over 550 of which are part of the Independent Food Aid Network). Hundreds of food banks are also run by the Salvation Army, schools, universities and hospitals.
Food Security: Occurs when all people are able to afford adequate safe and nutritious food to meet their requirements for a healthy life. Community food providers and affordable food schemes are usually attempting to respond to a lack of food security in their local community. However, food security can only be attained through income-focused solutions including local infrastructure, adequate social security payments, a Living Wage and cash first schemes.
Food Surplus: Occurs when the supply of food exceeds the demand for it. There are many ways and reasons this can happen and it can happen at every stage from farm to fridge to fork involving farmers, manufacturers, retail outlets, hospitality providers and individual households (Bread & Butter Thing). Many charitable food providers redistribute surplus food either via links with local suppliers or through FareShare or Felix Project membership.
Food Waste: Unlike food surplus, food waste occurs when food is not redistributed and goes into the bin.
Marginalised Community or Group: Marginalised communities are those excluded from mainstream social, economic, educational, and/or cultural life. Examples of marginalised populations include, but are not limited to, groups excluded due to race, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, physical ability, language, and/or immigration status. Marginalisation occurs due to unequal power relationships between social groups (Baah, Teitelman & Riegel).
Moral Injury: The strong cognitive and emotional response that can occur following events that violate a person's moral or ethical code (The Lancet).
Pay-As-You-Feel: A concept which encourages people to think about what that plate of food means to them, and value it in whatever way they can. By choosing not to segregate people based on financial circumstances projects are funded in a way that does not patronise those who need it and those who want to support it. Those in need are not degraded or shamed for taking a free or cheap meal, likewise those who can afford it are not pestered into more and more donations. Everyone is equal in getting fed, it is up to the individual to pay what they feel (The Real Junk Food Project).
Social Supermarket: A social enterprise, which operates as a not-for-profit shop. They sell food and other household goods at up to 70% discount. They might be dependent on charitable grants, donations or volunteer labour or they might be sustainable.
Sustainable: A project is sustainable if it is able to continue over a period of time. Sustainability can refer to funding – projects are more likely to be sustainable if they are not solely reliant on donations and charitable grants, as well as the environment – food production is only sustainable if it doesn’t negatively impact the environment on a long term basis.
Trauma Informed Practice: A model that is grounded in and directed by a complete understanding of how trauma exposure affects community member's neurological, biological, psychological and social development (Scottish Government).

Images: 10 image(s) available.