# BUCFP

URL: https://bucfp.org/
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN2
Coordinates: 50.82, -0.13

Type: community_garden
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 1)

Description: None

Full text:
(Header image: Volunteer Celebration Day 2025)
LATEST UPDATES FOR May 2026
We are now closed Wednesdays (invited groups only on that day)
The centre has open access Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays - 10am to 4pm
Monday is our Allotment Day
JOIN US FOR OUR 2026 AGM - 3RD JULY, 11.30AM
We’re recruiting Playroom Bank staff
We’ve been running a computer course, with help available Friday mornings, booked one to one support available for people who need it (free). You can register for free here - https://www.learnmyway.com/
WE NEED VOLUNTEERS TO COMPLETE OUR TEAM, FIND OUT MORE HERE.
Donated items - due to space available we cannot take any donations for the time being
Freshly Cooked Vegan Lunch - Served at 1pm
LUNCH - £1
(This is a suggested donation, but if you have no money talk to a member of staff about getting help) - Children eat for free
News:
OPEN TUESDAYS, THURSDAYS AND FRIDAYS
All services available Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, including Lunches. The Playroom is open Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, term time only.
lunches
We are serving food inside on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday - 1pm-2pm. We are suggesting a donation of £1.00 for lunch.
FOOD SUPPORT
We are able to help you access regular support for food by referring to local food banks, we are able to provide one off emergency food parcels for people in crisis (collection only). Call 01273 601 211 prior to arrange.
Classes
Please click here for full details.
Allotment
The allotment remains available for booked sessions for adults and accompanied children on Mondays, Please email food.project@bucfp.org for more info or call 01273 601 211.
Donated items
We have a store of new and second hand (clean) bedding, sleeping bags, towels, clothes, small household items, toys, parenting items etc. (collection only)
We welcome food donations only at the moment.
Please call to enquire 01273 601 211 or email info@bucfp.org for more info.
Affordable laundry
Our laundry service runs 4 sessions a day.
Please be aware that you need to book in advance. Times will be 10:00am – 11.30am, 11:30-1:00pm and 2:00pm - 3.30pm – if you are more than 10 minutes late you will not be allowed to do your session.
We are offering booked appointments to use our washing machines and tumble dryer £2.50 per wash (laundry tablet included). Call 01273 601 211 to book or email info@bucfp.org for more info.
Welfare & benefits advice
Welfare Rights are open for booked appointments. Please note that we cannot offer drop-in sessions.
We are still providing benefits advice online and by phone. To access this service please call the direct welfare rights line on 01273 676 171 or email welfarerights@bucfp.org for more info.
Digital support
Our booked computer sessions have increased to 6 a week. These are on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, Friday morning and afternoon. - please call and book in advance.
Childcare & parent support
We have a free Ofsted registered early years setting called ‘The Playroom’. We learn and play outside as much as we can in all weathers and have a balance of indoor and outdoor play. This is for children 1 years old - up to the age of 8 years old. Times: Tuesday-Thursday-Friday 10am - 1pm - term time only.
This is open for booked sessions, children and parents need to be registered in advance for this service and there are certain requirement criteria.
Please contact playroom.project@bucfp.org for more information. Parents will be expected to stay on the premises.
Volunteering
If you would like to register your interest in volunteering, please do so here - https://forms.gle/9xd28hHWi8BaTNX46
-
Disabled access:
Please note; Access to the centre is via a large flight of stairs. However people can be seen in the downstairs office for advice or otherwise.
Recent photos:
Find us:
6 Tilbury Place
Brighton
BN2 0GY
Other places of support:
If a service is not running, or the centre is closed, please see our Sign Posting page HERE

Images: 10 image(s) available.