# About the Community Kitchen - Brighton and Hove Food Partnership

URL: https://bhfood.org.uk/cookery-school
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN1
Coordinates: 50.82, -0.14

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: high (score: 6)

Description: Our cookery school offers classes for everyone from beginners to experienced cooks, as well as private parties, venue hire and community cookery groups.

Full text:
The Food Partnership runs a cookery school where everyone can cook, learn new skills and enjoy food together.
Embark on a culinary adventure at one of our cookery classes, parties or team-building events led by some of Brighton and Hove’s top chefs and cookery teachers.
Discover the diverse flavours of the world, from the delicate Bao Buns of Asia to the vibrant spices of South Indian cuisine, the fiery heat of Mexican dishes to the rich traditions of West African cooking. Learn to prepare delicious meals, pick up expert tips and tricks, and hear fascinating food stories from our talented chefs.
And the best part? No washing up! At the end of each session sit back, relax, and savour your delicious creations around our communal dining table. All taking place right in the centre of Brighton – on Queens Road just 5 minutes from Brighton station.
The Kitchen is also available to hire and is fully equipped and spacious with areas for demonstrations, cooking stations and tables for dining/ food preparation.
All profits from our parties, hires and cookery classes support our community cookery work where everyone can cook, learn new skills and connect with their community.
What we offer at the Community Kitchen:
- Cookery Classes: Buy a ticket for one of our evening and weekend classes and learn new cooking techniques
- Venue hire: Hire the space for your own event – supper clubs and dinner parties, community bake offs, recipe development , photo or video shoot or entertaining clients.
- We host private Team Building events, hen do’s, community groups and parties.
How to get involved:
- Donations: Your financial support can help support our programme of free & low-cost classes for local people in need.
- Volunteering: Lend your time and skills to help with our sociable classes & events.
The Kitchen has hosted 1,000+ community sessions for people in need including people living with dementia, learning disabilities, physical and mental health conditions, families on low incomes, refugees, carers and many more.
Since its doors opened in May 2018, the Community Kitchen has been a lifeline for those facing food insecurity and social isolation in Brighton & Hove. The kitchen provides essential food support and empowers individuals and families to take control of their health and well-being.
With over 6400 people in Brighton & Hove relying on emergency food support and families living on a meager £8.53 per person weekly food budget, the need for such services is greater than ever.
The Community Kitchen tackles these issues head-on by offering practical cookery skills and fostering social interaction. Find out more about our Community work.
“The space improves my mental health… I can now stay calmer with food and focus on enjoying the process, preparing some things in advance and not worrying if I have the exact ingredient or if I get the timing exactly right. I now have more confidence to make a meal out of a variety of ingredients and make swaps in recipes”- cookery course participant
Loading...

--- Additional page: https://bhfood.org.uk/welcoming-refugees-to-the-community-kitchen ---
“Everyone relaxed, chatted, laughed, and made something they were proud of. It didn’t matter what level of English people had, we communicated over food.”
The Community Kitchen is a cookery school where everyone can cook, learn new skills, connect with their community, and enjoy food together.
In collaboration with Voices in Exile, Refugee Radio, Hummingbird & other local organisations we have recently hosted groups of local refugees for community cookery sessions. Alongside our regular chef’s Kirna, Jethro & Kanthi, we have enjoyed baking, community cook ups & shared meals around our communal dining table. We love that our kitchen provides a warm and friendly place for participants to cook a healthy nutritious meal and spend time eating together.
“Access to good healthy food is not easy for our attendees. Our group loved the session. Everyone relaxed, chatted, laughed, and made something they were proud of. It didn’t matter what level of English people had, we communicated over food.” – Group Coordinator
These classes provide a mutually beneficial experience for our chefs, volunteers and participants. There is so much knowledge, beautiful stories and delicious food to be shared. We often come away with brand new recipes, and cookery techniques which we then share in other cookery classes. When we sit down to eat together we always enjoy chatting about the food, inspiration behind the dishes, family recipes and stories of home.
“They don’t have a communal space in their accommodation so this was the first time in weeks they were able to sit down and eat all together while chatting. ‘It felt normal’ they kept repeating.” – Group Coordinator
These sessions are a wonderful way for participants to access a cookery space, meet new people, practise their English & integrate within their new community. We really hope to continue welcoming these groups to the Community Kitchen – find out how to support us below.
A huge thank you to The National Lottery Community Fund for funding this work as part of the Ready Healthy Eat Programme.
Help us run more community cookery sessions:
- Donations: Your financial support can help ensure the kitchen’s continued operation and reach more individuals in need.
- Volunteering: Lend your time and skills to help run the kitchen’s programs.
- Attend a Class: Buy a ticket for one of our evening and weekend classes and learn new cooking techniques from some of Brighton & Hove’s best chefs and cookery teachers.
- Hire the Space: Host your next event at the Community Kitchen and contribute to its mission. We host Team Building events, hen do’s, community groups and parties.

Images: 7 image(s) available.