# Clock Tower Sanctuary - Donate Today

URL: https://www.thects.org.uk/
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN1
Coordinates: 50.82, -0.14

Type: food_gifting
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: high (score: 5)

Description: We work with young people experiencing homelessness to give them space, support & stability.

Full text:
Our day centre
We are here for you if you are 16-to-25 and rough sleeping, ‘sofa surfing’ or living in temporary, emergency, or supported housing. Our day centre is open 10:30am – 1:30pm on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays & Saturdays, and we serve a free, hot lunch at 12:30pm.
You can use our shower & laundry facilities or take part in daily classes and activities. Food parcels are also available.
We are the only drop-in day centre in Brighton & Hove for 16-to-25 year olds who are experiencing homelessness. We provide practical and emotional support to help young people to move from crisis to stability.
Discover Dandi’s story
Dandi first came to the day centre with her brother, as she was too nervous to come on her own. Like many young people we support, she had become homeless as relations with her mum had deteriorated to the point where she could no longer live at home.
Donate
Could you help us by making a one-off or regular gift? You can offer a lifeline to a young person who has nowhere else to turn. Please consider making monthly donation of:
£10
Could help fund our drop-in centre to provide a safe space, hot meal, showers, and laundry facilities on a regular basis.
Donate£22
Could help pay for pots, pans, and other kitchen essentials for a young person moving into a new home.
Donate£55
Could help fund one-to-one support to assist a young person into suitable accommodation that they can call a home.
DonateOr donate whatever you can afford here...
Find out more"The Clock Tower Sanctuary meets your basic needs and that allows you to get organised and to try and get a job. Otherwise, you are in a fight or flight survival mode and you can very easily spiral down, becoming depressed and lonely. It’s exhausting."
The latest news
Where are we
Opening hours
10:30am - 1:30pm
Day centre entrance for young people
You can find us just off Ship Street. We’re in a little alleyway right next to the Trading Post cafe – look for the Clock Tower Sanctuary sign on the street.
Office entrance for visitors and deliveries
We are at Wenlock House, 41-43 North Street, Brighton, BN1 1RH. You can find us down the alley to the left of The Body Shop.
Please see our Contact page for more information.

Images: 10 image(s) available.