# East Brighton Food Co-operative – Providing local people with fresh fruit and vegetables

URL: https://www.eastbrightonfoodcoop.uk/
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN1
Coordinates: 50.84, -0.13

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: high (score: 10)

Description: None

Full text:
Award Winning Community Meals on Wheels Across the City of Brighton & Hove
FOOD IS MEDICINE.
Victoria Melody, the Brighton Fringe Sensation, is performing Trouble, Struggle, Bubble and Squeak, her five star mega Power to the People show, featuring the EBFC’s grassroots community work by Bryan Coyle and the EBFC team, Vic’s performing at the Speigletent WundaBarn for one day only! 12 May – 2pm!
Bryan and the EBFC team will be raising money to keep the EBFC community meal service and surplus fresh food service going on gofundme.
Help keep EBFC’s award winning home delivered fresh nutritious meals service and surplus food redistribution across Brighton and Hove going! Thank you to all our supporters, especially the fantastic Enjoolata Foundation, EBFC’s first ever supporter, for match funding £1,500 and young Patrick Coyle for running his socks off in the Brighton 10k!
…and this Sunday 10 May, from midday, Bryan will be hosting the EBFC BBQ for the Our Place Community Fun Day in East Brighton, come along and have some delicious food and lots of fun. All Welcome, starts midday : )
EBFC smashed the Christmas Fundraiser target of £10,000, thanks to 93 individual pledges of support made to the East Brighton Food Cooperative’s AVIVA ‘ Double your Money ‘ Christmas Fundraiser 2025.
Thank you so much for your kindness & generosity in supporting the AVIVA’s ‘ Double your Money’ Christmas Fundraiser for EBFC’s award winning community Meals on Wheels and surplus food redistribution service across the city of Brighton & Hove
The fund was successfully closed on the 2nd January 2026. This funding will literally keep the ovens and lights on and the wheels turning.
The EBFC will be publicly releasing their latest national report ” MALNUTRITION in the UK – the invisible problem costing our NHS £22+ Billion annually ” on the 26th January 2026 which will make national recommendations the will save the taxpayer billions whilst increasing the quality of life and care for millions.
This report after being launched in November as part of ageUK ‘s ” National Malnutrition Awareness Week 2025 ” is now being peer reviewed so it will be ready for public release.
Sharing the importance of well-managed hospital discharge to ensure that people leaving hospital are equipped with individualised nutritional care plans where necessary and the importance of daily fresh, healthy, nutritious meals for the frail and elderly.
The wonderful Tribe family are kindly donating their Dad’s funeral donations to East Brighton Food Co-op on behalf of their dearly departed Dad, Dennis Tribe, who sadly passed away in summer 2025. When Dennis was well he delivered meals on wheels and was a big advocate for meals on wheels, Dennis’s daughter Maria came into our kitchen to meet us and helped make some of our EBFC Vegetarian Infinity Burgers with volunteer Haka. We are so grateful for their support. There is a huge amount of goodwill and kindness that helps to keep our service going.
East Brighton Food Co-operatives’s founder Bryan Coyle was invited to speak at Malnutrition Awareness week in November 2025 – timetable and links below.
UK/MAW 2025 Timetable : The Focus of the Week.
,Monday: Malnutrition Screening – Tuesday: Challenges & Solutions – WEDNESDAY: Bryan Coyle 1pm -HOSPITAL DISCHARGE –
Thirsty Thursday – Friday: Every Contact Counts
Link Malnutrition Awareness Week website. https://www.bapen.org.uk/malnutrition/uk-malnutrition-awareness-week/
PLEASE DONATE IF YOU CAN
Sign up someone you know or yourself for EBFC’S meals on wheels service and you can support and taste for yourself our fresh, healthy, nutritious meals.
Regular monthly donations make a big impact to our service, however big or small, it all helps. Thank you for your support.
– £120 covers 1 months healthy, fresh, nutritious delivered meals with fruit and welfare visits for 1 vulnerable person, helping with recovery and wellbeing after a hospital stay, facilitating their discharge home and maintaining their health and wellbeing longterm.
– £60 covers 2 weeks healthy, fresh, nutritious delivered meals with fruit and welfare visits for 1 vulnerable person, helping with recovery and wellbeing after a hospital stay, facilitating their discharge home and maintaining their health and wellbeing longterm.
– £20 covers the cost of 5 healthy, fresh, nutritious meals for 5 days.
– £4 covers the cost of 1 healthy, fresh, nutritious meals
To set up a standing order or make a one off donation, however large or small, it’s hugely appreciated and will go a long way:
East Brighton Food CIC
Account Number: 38650998
Sort Code: 23-05-80
THANK YOU
If you would like to volunteer for cooking, delivering, admin or anything else please contact: janet@eastbrightonfoodcoop.uk
Our original pilot project was funded by Nesta and the Dunhill Medical Trust’s Social Movement for Health in addition to Causewayed

Images: 10 image(s) available.