# Welcome - Fitzherbert Community Hub

URL: https://fitzherbertcommunityhub.org.uk/
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN2
Coordinates: 50.8191905, -0.1256383

Type: community_garden
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 4)

Description: Our mission: to reduce food poverty and social isolation by welcoming and nourishing all with food, friendship and fun. A safe place to eat, form lasting relationships, exercise and belong.

Full text:
Welcome to the Fitzherbert Community Hub! A community of communities, a sanctuary where the diverse people of East Brighton can connect and thrive.
Our mission is to reduce food poverty and social isolation, progressively and determinedly, by welcoming and nourishing all with food, friendship and fun; offering a safe place where local people can come to eat, form lasting relationships, exercise and belong.
We have converted the parish hall and courtyard at St John the Baptist church into a Community Hub and City Garden with a commercial standard teaching kitchen, dining area, purpose-built food bank facilities and additional meeting spaces designed to promote activity and instil a sense of belonging in your local area.
A place where you can get together with your neighbours and get to know them better. Real Junk Food Project Brighton are running a ‘pay as you feel’ community café from the Hub using food that would otherwise be sent to landfill. The café is open Tuesday to Friday: 10.00 – 14.00 (Lunch is served from 12.00).
You can make a donation to the project by contacting us here.
We’re now celebrating our 3rd anniversary! Find out more…
What’s on at the Hub
The Fitz Cafe
The Community Cafe is run by The Real Junk Food Project Brighton and serves barista coffee, cakes and pastries from 10am. Join us from noon for a delicious lunch made from food that would otherwise go to waste on a ‘pay as you feel basis’
Opening times:
Tuesday to Friday: 10.00-14.00 (lunch from noon)
mASCot Mondays Cafe at the Fitzherbert Hub
mASCot Mondays @Fitz is an invitation only lunch club, run by volunteers, many of whom are neuro divergent. As always you will find a welcoming team offering nourishing food on a pay as you feel basis.
Monday: mASCot training session (places are limited – contact us for an invitation)
Citizens Advice Sessions
We have Advice Sessions by Citizens Advice the first Wednesday of each month during cafe hours.
Enquire in the cafe.
Foodbank at the Fitzherbert Hub
The Food bank is open on Mondays in the Presbytery – access is from the front door.
Foodbank opening times:
Monday: 10.30-11.30
Community Garden on Upper Bedford Street
We have our own gardening plot on the green opposite BTTC. TRJFP welcomes volunteers who wish to help grow vegetables and herbs for the kitchen.
Enquire in the cafe.
IT/Computer training
IT/Computer training drop-in sessions at the Fitzherbert Hub. Appointments can also be arranged at the front-of-house desk.
IT/Computer Training drop-in sessions:
Drop in on Thursdays: 10:30-12:30
After School Club
Our After School Club is a winning combination of Table Tennis at BTTC and cookery lessons from The Real Junk Food Project.
After School Club runs during school terms on Mondays and Thursdays and is currently full – please contact us to join the waiting list.
Brighton Table Tennis Club at the Fitzherbert Community Hub
The cafe has become a perfect base for welcoming new players and visitors to the Brighton Table Tennis Club and sharing social time with them before and after our sessions.
Event Hire
If you would like to hire the Hub for an event, please get in touch.
Food Bank Donations
Our thanks go to the Brighton & Hove Food Partnership, FareShare Sussex, Sussex Gleaning Network, The Real Junk Food Project Brighton, Brighton Food Factory, Brighton & Hove City Council, the SVP Our Lady of Lourdes, Rottingdean and the Albert Gubay Foundation for food donations.
If you have any questions about food at the Fitzherbert Community Hub or you’d like to make a donation, you can get in touch via our contact page. Click the button below
You can also find more information about the Emergency Food Network in Brighton & Hove here.
Latest News & stories
We are two!
January saw the celebration of the second anniversary of the Fitzherbert Community Hub. As we start a new year it is perfect time to reflect on our achievements and aspirations for the year ahead and beyond.
Last year we talked of success being a result of the commitment and aspiration of all partners towards community integration and social value. We are delighted that we have seen that manifested in action throughout another year with passion and conviction. Activities in the Fitz have reflected the diversity and enterprise of our community.
We have been experimental and inventive but within our safe space. We have been busy, purposeful and also had fun.
Find out more about our achievements and plans for the future here.
After School Club at BTTC and the Hub – Watch Video by Stories of Note
Check out the latest video from local filmmaker Stories of Note – this one shows the after school club at the hub and Brighton Table Tennis Club. You can see more short films documenting the development of the Fitzherbert Community Hub, here.
The Fitzherbert Blog
For updates on the Fitzherbert Community Hub project, fundraising news, information about what’s on at the Hub and the latest from our partners, check out the blog here.
We did it! £18K raised on Crowdfunder
On 2 February 2024 we successfully raised £18,104 with 100 supporters in 60 days.
A huge thank you to all who donated to our Crowdfunder.
Support The Fitzherbert Community Hub Winter Crowdfunder
With only days left to go, we have almost reached our Winter Crowdfunder target. You can help us reach that target by making a pledge and helping us spread the word.
Veganuary Fundraiser
Celebrate Veganuary with The Real Junk Food Project at the Fitzherbert Community Hub at our first Supper Club on Saturday 27 January. Tickets on sale now.
Find out about our partners
Brighton Table Tennis Club, Real Food Project Brighton, Voices in Exile and St John the Baptist Church are working together on the Fitzherbert Community Hub project with a shared vision to reduce food poverty and social isolation in East Brighton.
THANKS TO OUR FUNDERS
This project would not be possible if it wasn’t for the support of the following organisations.

Images: 10 image(s) available.