# Brighton & Hove Food Partnership | Green Wellbeing Alliance

URL: https://greenwellbeingalliance.org.uk/project/brighton-hove-food-partnership
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN2
Coordinates: 50.82, -0.13

Type: food_education
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 2)

Description: None

Full text:
The Food Partnership runs therapeutic gardening activities in a range of spaces, including:
* ‘Growing New Roots’ ecotherapy groups at various locations on the South Downs, primarily based from the Clubhouse (Saddlescombe Road/ off the A27 near Brighton)
* Preston Park Community Garden
* Saunders Park Edible Garden (near Lewes Road, East Brighton)
Gardening and wellbeing groups use nature and the growing of plants to create meaningful social interactions for those who may be experiencing social isolation. Some courses are more focused on learning key food growing skills, while others includes gentler activities to stimulate conversation and connection between volunteers and participants.
All programmes have in-built flexibility to accommodate both the individual’s and the group’s needs. Example activities include: seed saving and sowing, transplanting seedlings and harvesting flowers, fruit and vegetables. Sessions are relaxed and informal to create a welcoming and supportive atmosphere.
Type of activities:
Food growing / Cookery / Creative and arts / Ecotherapy
Specialist client experience:
Older people and those living with dementia. Mental ill health. Addiction recovery.
“Coming here makes my day, you people are so kind to me and this is the garden of my dreams.”
– Dementia friendly gardening participant –
Location
Various outdoor locations, including Preston Park community garden, Saunders Park edible garden and the Clubhouse, Saddlescombe Road.
Contact
Project info
Transport provided:
None, except for Growing New Roots groups
Public transport and parking:
Various buses run to our main sites, see buses.co.uk
Drop-in:
Yes (Saunders Park only)
Time-limited course:
Yes
Availability:
Wednesdays and Fridays
Facilities:
Toilet available at all sites. Indoor space is available at the Clubhouse and wheelchair access available at Preston Park. Refreshments are provided at every session.
Member projects
Brighton & Hove Food Partnership
Therapeutic gardening groups in Brighton & the South Downs, for those living with mental health difficulties & other life challenges.
Centre for Ecotherapy
Therapeutic gardening project in Stanmer Park, Brighton.
Plot 22
Plot 22 is a community allotment, a food growing project and therapeutic garden in Hove.
Rock Farm
Rock Farm is a working market garden, community space and horticultural therapy project on a 6-acre site near Steyning.
Sacred Earth
A community-owned land project near Horam, East Sussex that is dedicated to life, learning and working in harmony with nature.
Circle of Life Rediscovery
This project outside Lewes, East Sussex aims to transform education, health and families through nature.
The Plot (Stanmer Park)
A community-led sanctuary space for sharing and nurturing creativity, community spirit and connection.
Hearts & Flowers
This project informs and educates people in sustainable and organic flower growing.
Living Vital
Living Vital are an organic food growing community garden located at the back of Stanmer Park in Brighton.
Wild Gathering CiC
They create and facilitate nature connection health and wellbeing workshop programmes, events, and guided mindful walks.
Rainbow CommUnity Projects CIC
A non-profit organization which aims at reconnecting people to nature and to each other

Images: 10 image(s) available.