# Social Action Team — Holland Road Baptist Church

URL: https://www.hrbc.org.uk/socialaction
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN3
Coordinates: 50.82, -0.16

Type: food_bank
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: high (score: 6)

Description: None

Full text:
GET INVOLVED
Social Action Team
PURPOSE
The Social Action team exists to show the love of Jesus to the people of Brighton and Hove
There’s lots going on throughout the week to show love to our city
MONDAY LUNCH CLUB
Every Monday at 12PM, we offer a warm and safe place to come
We offer our neighbours and local community, particularly those experiencing homelessness or in temporary accommodation, a warm and safe place to come. We provide a free lunch, friendly conversation and signposting to other services. Just turn up!
FOOD BANK
We have a food bank, topped up regularly to serve our community
We have a food bank stocked with essentials including: tinned food, dry food, toiletries and personal care and more. If you would like to use the food bank, just turn up during office hours or come along to the Monday Lunch Club. We’d love to meet you.
FRIDAY FOOD HUB
Hove Food Hub is for families and individuals, Fridays 12.30 - 2PM
The Hove Food Hub is for families and individuals who live within one mile of Palmeira Square or Holland Rd Baptist Church. The project is now running as an affordable food project with a £5 a week membership fee. Find out more about the Food Partnership.
MONDAY LUNCH CLUB
Carol is one of our volunteers on Monday. Hear why she serves and what a difference it makes
Stories from some of our friends
Primrose is one of our regular guests at our Monday Lunch Club. She shares some stories of how she has seen God at work in her life.
Paddy is one of our regular volunteers at Holland Road. This is his story of how God has been at work in his life through his time at Holland Road.
NEXT STEPS
Find out more about how to get or give help!
-
If you, or someone you know, needs help with something then please let us know and we’ll do our best to help.
Get in touch with us via the next step form or call us on 01273 732111 and we’ll get back to you.
You can also find help at the Street Support Network, a service we helped setup and support financially. It’s a not just for street homelessness.
-
There’s a huge number of ways you could help – including practical, creative and financial ways.
You can find out more, or join our team, here.
-
If you’re interested in giving financially – you can find out more about supporting the ongoing work of the church here.
-
As we serve the city we do it in partnership with other agencies and churches: Christians Against Poverty (CAP), Brighton Light Trust, Christian Action Brigthon (CAB), BHCM, St Mungos, The Passage, Just Life, Neighbourly.com, Brighton and Hove food partnership.

Images: 10 image(s) available.