# Homepage - Lunch Positive

URL: https://lunchpositive.org/
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN1
Coordinates: 50.8256989, -0.1423297

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 3)

Description: Every Friday we provide a welcoming, supportive and peer-led HIV community space in central Brighton. We also have a range of outreach support available.

Full text:
Support for people living with HIV - Community, food, friendship & peer support
supportive peer-led HIV community spaces with a wide range of ‘wrap around’ support and wellbeing projects.
We offer healthy & enjoyable community lunches, drop-ins and support groups, and plenty of opportunities to socialise with other people living with HIV across Brighton and beyond.
We create safer peer-led spaces where everyone feels comfortable and included – a great way to make new friends and to share peer support!
In partnership with local befriending charity Together Co, we are helping people who are living with HIV in Brighton and Hove, and East and West Sussex to make new connections.
The scheme will match people with HIV with a like-minded volunteer to develop supportive, enjoyable and fulfilling friendships.
Everything is relaxed and at your own pace when you’re at our lunch clubs, drop-ins, groups and wellbeing gatherings. Make the space your own and sit where you feel most comfortable, share a cuppa with other members, ask for or share supportive tips – or stick with one of our volunteers until you feel you’d like to connect more.
We sometimes have speakers, support workshops and advice surgeries as well, and you can find out about all sorts of activities organised by other members and volunteers.
We open from midday for tea or coffee and a chat, and from 1 PM we provide an enjoyable freshly cooked self-service lunch, including a vegetarian option.
You’re welcome to come along at any time during opening hours – there’s no need to book ahead. You’ll be greeted by one of our friendly and helpful volunteers who will tell you more about what we do, help you however we can, and make your visit comfortable.
If at the start it helps to come along at a quieter time before we open, or you’d like some extra support coming along and settling in, then we’re here for just that. We too have lived experience of HIV, and know that coming to something new can sometimes feel a bit difficult.
We’re here for you.
Get out & about with other Lunch Positive members at the weekend
I’d never been able to talk about my HIV and life like this. Here I’m accepted and we talk about all sorts of things, freely and safely. And the food’s good too! Everyone’s made me feel welcome and nothing’s expected of me, it’s now a regular fixture of my week
Before I came to Lunch Positive I was alone, I felt invisible, and I wouldn’t have seen anyone from one day to the next. It’s been a lifeline. I had at times felt like ending it all. Being here has helped me change that feeling. Thank you Lunch Positive.
Lovely food, lovely people, great service. It really brings the community together. I can be myself, and feel so safe. It’s been great for me as a newly diagnosed person to meet others for support and to know that I’m not alone.
I’d never been able to talk about my HIV and life like this. Here I’m accepted and we talk about all sorts of things, freely and safely. And the food’s good too! Everyone’s made me feel welcome and nothing’s expected of me, it’s now a regular fixture of my week
Before I came to Lunch Positive I was alone, I felt invisible, and I wouldn’t have seen anyone from one day to the next. It’s been a lifeline. I had at times felt like ending it all. Being here has helped me change that feeling. Thank you Lunch Positive.
It’s been great for me as a newly diagnosed person to meet others for support and to know that I’m not alone.
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. COOKIE SETTINGSACCEPTPRIVACY POLICY
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.

Images: 10 image(s) available.