# Home - Moulsecoomb Forest Garden

URL: https://moulsecoombforestgarden.org/
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN2
Coordinates: 50.8225, -0.1372

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: low (score: 0)

Description: Welcome Established as a project in 1994, and as a charity in 2005, Moulsecoomb Forest Garden and Wildlife Project – MFGWP – is a small charity on the outskirts of Brighton located in an area of high deprivation with few community facilities. We connect people with gardening, food, and nature in various ways. In primary… Read More »Home

Full text:
Moulsecoomb Forest Garden
and Wildlife Project
Welcome
Established as a project in 1994, and as a charity in 2005, Moulsecoomb Forest Garden and Wildlife Project – MFGWP – is a small charity on the outskirts of Brighton located in an area of high deprivation with few community facilities.
We connect people with gardening, food, and nature in various ways. In primary and secondary schools, we offer an alternative for pupils who struggle in a typical classroom setting. We also run a therapeutic garden project for people of all abilities. Inclusivity and diversity are at the heart of our project, with everyone welcome on our Tuesday and Friday workdays. By collaborating with local schools, social services, pupil referral units, and the youth service, we support young people in progressing within mainstream education and achieving their full potential.
We provide outdoor education and therapeutic support for pupils at Key Stages 3 and 4 in the Brighton and Hove area, offering eco-therapy and outdoor education to complement the school curriculum. We specialise in working with young people with learning difficulties such as Autism, Dyslexia and ADHD.
We offer horticultural, carpentry, woodland management, cooking, educational and social opportunities to everyone.
Our aims are to:
- Reduce anti-social behaviour by involving excluded pupils in the running of the garden.
- Improve community health by producing organic and locally grown fruit and vegetables.
- Enhance skills and employability by offering practical based training and volunteering opportunities.
- Involve children in planting, growing and eating healthy food and learning to respect nature and the environment.
- Create and enhance wildlife habitats and protect biodiversity including old fashioned vegetable varieties.
- Promote sustainable lifestyles by encouraging and educating people about the benefits of organic gardening, locally produced food and composting.
Moulsecoomb Forest Garden and Wildlife Project celebrates its 30th year in 2024, and our Open Day in July was a lovely event where we welcomed friends old and new to enjoy the garden, its surroundings and tasty food. Our 30th Anniversary AGM is in November and our Christmas party is in December. Please contact us if you would like to come along.
We are actively fundraising for the coming year – please support our work to help us keep going.
Thanks to Brighton and Hove Food Partnership for making this short film at our 30th anniversary Open Day.
To keep up with all our latest news and activities please check out our latest news and follow and subscribe to our social channels on Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and Twitter.

Images: 10 image(s) available.