# Food Poverty - Together In Sussex

URL: https://togetherinsussex.org.uk/areas-of-work/food-poverty
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN2
Coordinates: 50.8225, -0.1372

Type: food_bank
Operational level: council_supported
Popularity: high (score: 11)

Description: None

Full text:
Food Poverty
14% of all UK adults have experienced food insecurity in the 12 months to mid-2022, equating to an estimated 11.3 million people. Between April 2022 and March 2023, food banks in our network provided almost 3 million food supplies to people in crisis, a 37% increase on the previous year. Our social security system should support anyone in need of help, but more and more people are finding it impossible to make ends meet because Universal Credit is falling short, and it’s pushing people to food banks.
Together in Sussex has outlined the resources available across Sussex for those experiencing food poverty and insecurity and other food related problems. Brighton and Hove is home to many different helpful organisations such as food banks, shelters and charities offering financial aid.
Food Banks Across Sussex
We have linked to several websites which outline the food banks operating across the whole of Sussex. Food banks will offer a wide range of food items such as tinned vegetables and soups, dried pasta, vegetables and other supermarket surplus food. They sometimes also offer other non-food items such as toiletries and baby supplies.
Note: Some of these websites are regional and therefore will only show food banks in a certain area (for example only East Sussex) in these cases, we have indicated it next to the website name.
Brighton & Hove Food Partnership - this is a directory where you can search up keywords. Scroll down the page to find the listings of food banks.
1 Space (East Sussex only)
Adur & Worthing Council (Food banks around Adur, Worthing and Shoreham)
Crawley Council (Crawley area only)
List of Community Kitchens Across Sussex
The Real Junk Food Project - Feed bellies not bins!
The Real Junk Food Project Brighton is part of the Real Junk Food Project network, created by Adam Smith. It is a national and international movement of cafes, projects and pop-ups with one core objective: To intercept food waste destined for land fill and use it to feed people who need it, on a ‘pay as you feel’ basis. The innovative ‘pay as you feel’ concept encourages people to think about what that plate of food means to them, and value it in whatever way they can. By choosing not to segregate people based on financial circumstances we are able to not only fund the project, but do so in a way that does not patronise those who need it and those who want to support it. Those in need are not degraded or shamed for taking a free or cheap meal, likewise those who can afford it are not pestered into more and more donations. Everyone is equal in getting fed, it is up to the individual to pay what they feel.
Their website page here lists all of their current locations around Brighton.
The Sussex Community Development Association
The SCDA team of cookery volunteers makes up to 300 delicious portions of food each week using surplus fruit and veg. Their freshly cooked meals are frozen and shared through their other food projects. The kitchen is run entirely by volunteers, who plan recipes, source ingredients & come together to cook three times a week.
Find timings and location here.
Leaf Hall Community Kitchen
Leaf Hall Community Kitchen brings residents together to be part of the solution. Each Friday a group of local volunteers meet to cook for others in need. They cook 3x different dinners, giving people healthy and tasty homemade food for the whole weekend. Clients come to Leaf Hall at lunchtime and collect their weekends food. Volunteers eat together at the end of each session and celebrate that day’s achievements.
Free Friday Takeaways are available for collection from the venue from 12.30-1pm. To order your free take away please text Clare on 07902 214809 saying your name, number of adult portions, number of children’s portions, ages of children, and if you are vegetarian. Once you have collected the first time, a text “do you need help with food this week?” will be sent to all involved individuals each week to allow those in need to still have available assistance. Any spare places are then offered to Eastbourne Food bank clients.
Click here for their website.
There are many other community kitchens across the whole of Sussex and a simple search online comes up with lots of options. Most community kitchens will aim to cater for different dietary requirements - don't be afraid to ask.
Brighton & Hove Food Partnership - All Things Food Across Sussex
The Food Partnership was started by local residents in 2003, and our committed team of staff & volunteers deliver a range of food projects which have helped over 15,000 local people learn to cook, grow their own food, eat a healthier diet and waste less. Eating is central to life’s celebrations and memories, and our approach is to use this power of food to bring about change. Much of our work benefits vulnerable adults and people experiencing deprivation, isolation, poor health and other life challenges. Our activities makes lasting changes to habits and behaviours which improve lives.
"We’re a not-for-profit organisation and we work with a wide range of partners including community organisations, statutory agencies, local businesses and individual residents. Our work has been recognised by independent bodies – most recently awarded ‘Non profit of the year’ 2019 at the Brighton & Hove Business Awards, ‘Team of the Year’ at the Cost Sector Catering Awards 2019 and the ‘Community Benefit Award’ at the 2019 Southeast RICS awards for the build project to create the Community Kitchen. We led Brighton & Hove’s successful submission for ‘Gold Sustainable Food City’ status. We hold the PQASSO Level 2 quality mark, and are proud to be a Living Wage employer."
The Food Partnership is grateful to its current funders for supporting this work: the Big Lottery Fund, the Esmee Fairbairn Foundation, the Fonthill Foundation, Sussex Community Foundation, Brighton & Hove CCG and Brighton & Hove City Council. Find out more about some of our activities below.
You can check out their website here. They also have many resources available for downloading and printing about various food schemes, projects and campaigns.
FareShare Sussex & Surrey
FareShare Sussex & Surrey was established in 2002 by City Gate Community Projects. From delivering food with one van to a handful of homeless shelters in Brighton and Hove, today they redistribute surplus food to organisations across Sussex and parts of Surrey with a fleet of 6 vans including 3 electric vans and one e-cargo bike.
They provide food to over 150 charities and community groups that not only deliver meals but provide additional services, such as advice and guidance, health support, counselling and befriending. They are helping to break the cycle of poverty and use food as a vehicle for good above and beyond alleviating hunger.
Around 150 volunteers keep the project thriving and are at the heart of FareShare Sussex & Surrey. The FareShare Futures coaching program provides them with accredited training, support and structure to help improve their employment chances.
Check our their website here.
Want to get involved?
Home to the South Downs, cookery schools, food businesses and farms, it is no surprise that Sussex is full of opportunities for you to help combat food related issues.
Brighton & Hove Food Partnership offer a huge range of different ways you can get stuck in helping out on their food projects in the city and greater Brighton area. They have a dedicated page on their website here: https://bhfood.org.uk/category...
The Sussex Community Development Association get help from volunteers to deliver their emergency food parcels. You can find out more information about this volunteering position here: https://sussexcommunity.org.uk...
Also, check out individual food bank and soup kitchen websites as they usually have a section explaining how you can sign up to volunteer with them.
Finally, donations are an easy and simple yet crucial way to help support organisations and people who are giving back to the community.

Images: 0 image(s) available.