# Get Support: Food Support

URL: https://www.ukharvest.org.uk/education/get-support/food-support
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN2
Coordinates: 50.81, -0.12

Type: food_bank
Operational level: government_funded
Popularity: high (score: 7)

Description: We have compiled a list of charities, organisations and government schemes that offer support, from mental health services to food providers.

Full text:
Food Support
National
The Trussell Trust
The Trussell trust have links with more than 1,200 foodbanks across the UK. To get access you will need a food voucher, which can be issued by a number of local community organisations. They offer emergency food parcels which contain at least 3 days worth of food. They also run free helplines with a trained advisor if you would like to speak with someone.
Your Local Pantry
When you become a member of a Pantry, in exchange for a small weekly subscription you will have access to food that you choose, including fresh fruit and vegetables, meat and store cupboard favourites, which will often be worth £15 - £20 or more.
Independent Food Aid Network
The Independent Food Aid Network is a network of organisations that operate throughout the UK and provide food aid and support to people in a variety of ways, including foodbanks and cash first referral leaflets. Find one of their 550 independent food banks here.
Their 'Worrying About Money?' cash first referral leaflets are for people facing money worries or financial crises - and support workers - to quickly see which local agencies can help.
Healthy Start:
If you’re more than 10 weeks pregnant or have a child under 4, you may be entitled to get help to buy healthy food and milk.
Regional
UKHarvest Community Food Hubs
West Sussex
We run frequent Community Food Hubs in and around the Chichester area where you can fill a bag of rescued food for a suggested donation. We encourage anyone who is on a tight budget, for any reason, to come along and get the support you need. You do not need a referral.
Nourish Hub
London
We offer a community meal Monday to Friday that everyone is invited to! It works just like your favourite café, except all food is offered on a ‘donate as you dine’ basis. We offer a delicious vegan and vegetarian menu, simply come along, order your favourite meal and donate to pay.
Fare Divide CIC Community Fridge Network
Littlehampton & Horsham
Offering free surplus fresh produce: available to all, you don't need a food voucher. You can come to the pantry during opening hours take up to 5 items per adult, per day and make a optional voluntary donation if you would like to.
Adur & Worthing Food Partnership
Adur & Worthing
If you are local to the Adur and Worthing area and need food for yourself or your family, there are people in your local community who can help.
Crisis Food Gosport
Gosport
Crisis Food Gosport is run soley by volunteers and donations from local supermarkets, bakeries and charities. In their hampers they aim to provide ingredients to make healthy meals. To arrange a hamper collection or delivery all you need to do is contact Crisis Food Support Directly.
ETC Sussex
Hastings
The Hastings Pantry supports people with weekly access to long life food, toiletries, fresh fruit, vegetables and bread for a £2.50 donation through a membership scheme. New members are welcome, but membership numbers are limited in line with food supplies. Proof of benefit will be required.
Brighton and Hove Food Partnership
Brighton & Hove
On their website you can find the details of other organiations and food banks in the Brighton and Hove area.
East Brighton Food Co-operative
Brighton
EBFC have been running 2 Emergency Food Hub Kitchens in East Brighton, both serving freshly cooked nutritious meals for their communities. You will need to place a meal order by emailing or calling beforehand.
Community Pantry
Mansbridge, Southampton
The Comunity Pantry in Mansbridge, Southampton is a membership-based scheme, with an annual £1 fee. Once you’ve joined, you will be able to access food and some household goods once a week.

Images: 10 image(s) available.