# Voices In Exile | Migrant & Refugee Charity in Brighton

URL: https://www.voicesinexile.org/
Location: United Kingdom, Brighton & Hove, BN2
Coordinates: 50.81, -0.12

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 3)

Description: Supporting refugees, asylum seekers & migrants in Brighton & Sussex with legal aid, advice, food support & community-building activities.

Full text:
We can help
Are you an asylum seeker, refugee, or someone with no recourse to public funds?
Latest updates
Rebuilding safety and stability: How we supported our client
StoriesLast year, a mother from Iran who had arrived in the UK on a spousal visa was introduced to Voices…
Read moreIntroducing Philip: A passionate new voice on our Board
StoriesNewsWe’re delighted to have recently welcomed three new trustees to the Voices in Exile Board. This month, we’re introducing Philip,…
Read moreCreativity, connection and plenty of colour in our recent group sessions
StoriesEventsOver the past few weeks, our community groups have been busy getting creative, learning new skills and enjoying time together.…
Read moreAbout us
Voices in Exile works with refugees, asylum seekers and vulnerable migrants with no recourse to public funds in East and West Sussex and Surrey. We offer practical and legal support including generalist advice and specialist immigration casework (up to IAA Level 2) for those who would otherwise be unable to access justice.
Services
You can find out about the different services we provide via the links below. We apply a holistic and compassionate approach to delivering our services, which are tailored to meet the needs of each client.
Food bank
We run a weekly food bank for service users who are struggling across Brighton and Hove.
The food bank provides short-term support for destitute clients.
You can either refer yourself to the food bank or a professional or a friend can make a referral on your behalf. You can refer by:
- Filling out the online form
- Calling our advice line on Thursdays 12pm-2pm 01273 082105
- Or email our advice inbox
ESOL and welcome groups
We run three weekly groups to help people find their way around the city and its services, practice English and improve wellbeing.
Refugee resettlement programmes
We work closely with families resettled in Brighton & Hove under various resettlement schemes including the United Kingdom Resettlement Scheme and the Afghanistan Resettlement Schemes (ARAP and ACRS) on behalf of Brighton & Hove City Council.
Generalist advice and casework
Our generalist advice and casework includes welfare benefits, housing and homelessness, asylum support, children’s and adult community care, and digital inclusion.
Generally, all our services are for vulnerable and/or destitute migrants, asylum seekers and refugees who are not eligible for legal aid and/or do not have the means to pay for private legal advice.
Immigration advice and casework
We are accredited to provide specialist immigration advice up to IAA Level 2. We provide advice & casework including initial applications to the Home Office and up to, but not including, appeals to the Tribunal.
Generally, all our services are for vulnerable and/or destitute migrants, asylum seekers and refugees who are not eligible for legal aid and/or do not have the means to pay for private legal advice.
Resources
Our comprehensive information directory provides information relating to local services and support across many different areas including housing and homelessness, domestic abuse, health and wellbeing, finance, and English language lessons. You can also access our immigration toolkit to help guide you through the immigration application process.
Information directory
We have created an online padlet that combines useful information for migrants in Brighton & Hove, as well as those supporting service users in the city. Open the information directory to view and scroll through all the resources.
The resource includes links to services for immigration advice, wellbeing, signposting, food, support groups, and education.
If you have a service to be added to the padlet, please contact administrator@voicesinexile.org
Myth-busting FAQs
This resource addresses some of the most common myths and misconceptions about refugees, asylum seekers and migrants in the UK.
Immigration toolkit
Voices in Exile has created a bespoke immigration toolkit to assist service users going through various immigration applications.
The toolkit features breakdowns of evidence needs, guides on how to gather evidence, and online forms needed.
Brighton was completely new to me and my family. ViE always supported us in every aspect, these interventions helped us feel more settled and increased integration to society.

Images: 9 image(s) available.