# Community Garden - Airfield Estate

URL: https://www.airfield.ie/communitygarden
Location: Ireland, Dublin, Dublin 16
Coordinates: 53.28, -6.23

Type: community_garden
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 1)

Description: The Airfield Community Garden is a shared community space for people to come together and learn about sustainable food production, meet with like-minded people, and get their hands dirty helping in the garden and with the harvest of food crops. Our goal is that this space will bring together people from all walks of life, … Continue reading "Community Garden"

Full text:
Community Garden
The Airfield Community Garden is a shared community space for people to come together and learn about sustainable food production, meet with like-minded people, and get their hands dirty helping in the garden and with the harvest of food crops.
Our goal is that this space will bring together people from all walks of life, whether they have a lifelong passion for gardening, or it is a new hobby they wish to explore. We will offer volunteering, courses, and workshops to help people learn more about urban gardening, horticulture, and sustainable food production.
This space will also play an important role in increasing the biodiversity of our estate and our community. We want to create a diverse but strong community of people, all brought together by a desire to learn!
Volunteering
Volunteering at the community garden will be managed by Friends of Airfield. There is a core group of founding members including Tracy-Jane Merry, Barbara Hadden, John O’Sullivan, with input from Airfield Estate.
Volunteering will be an essential part of bringing a community garden to life. If you are interested in getting involved (and your hands dirty), please fill in this form: https://forms.gle/mzcn7zgP6oTv8cD57.
If you have any questions, email us at friendsofairfield@gmail.com.
Our Community Garden is a shared space to:
– Learn about food production and gardening
– Attract pollinators
– Promote biodiversity
– Enjoy nature and relax
– Get your hands dirty

Images: 10 image(s) available.