# About Us - Dublin Community Growers

URL: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/about/
Location: Ireland, Dublin, Lucan
Coordinates: 53.35, -6.54

Type: community_garden
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: medium (score: 1)

Description: About Us What We Do Dublin Community Growers exists to connect community gardens and associated groups in Dublin, Ireland. We support and organise events that promote social inclusion, environmental responsibility, and community gardens as valued amenities. We meet monthly to share our experiences, discuss issues, and help one another with what we’ve learned. Explore our… Read More »About Us

Full text:
About Us
What We Do
Dublin Community Growers exists to connect community gardens and associated groups in Dublin, Ireland.
We support and organise events that promote social inclusion, environmental responsibility, and community gardens as valued amenities. We meet monthly to share our experiences, discuss issues, and help one another with what we’ve learned.
Explore our map and find community gardens near to you. Check out events throughout the year and sign up for our newsletter if you wish. Our resources section offers information and advice about the process of setting up a new community garden project. Get in touch if you have more questions or want to join up with us.
What is a Community Garden?
Very Simply, it is:
Any piece of land gardened by a group of people.
A broad definition of what a community garden entails. It can be urban, suburban, or rural. It can grow flowers, vegetables or community. It can be one community plot or can be many individual plots. It can be at a school, hospital, or in a neighborhood. It can also be a series of plots dedicated to “urban agriculture” where the produce is grown for a market.
Benefits of Community Gardening
- Beautifies neighbourhoods
- Builds community spirit
- Conserves resources
- Creates opportunities for recreation, exercise, therapy, and education
- Develops self-reliance
- Encourages sustainable communities
- Improves quality of life for people & wildlife
- Increases biodiversity
- Preserves green spaces
- Produces nutritious food
- Provides a catalyst for neighbourhood & community development
- Provides opportunities for intergenerational & cross-cultural connections
- Promotes economic wellbeing
- Reduces crime
- Reduces family food budgets
- Stimulates social interaction
© 2020 Dublin Community Growers. Designed by Adriana Jankiewicz

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/featured-gardens/blarney-park-community-garden/ ---
Blarney Park Community Garden, is a group of residents and locals who have come together with the common purpose of collectively gardening a piece of disused urban wasteland owned by Dublin City Council.
The garden is managed and maintained with the active participation of the gardeners themselves. The purpose is to provide fresh produce and plants as well as satisfying work in the garden, neighbourhood improvement, sense of community and connection to the environment.
We run workshops throughout the year on different subjects in or out of the garden. Some past workshops included Composting Your Garden Waste, Seed saving, Biodiversity in the Garden and Local Area, Christmas Wreath Making.
The land for the project is owned by Dublin City Council and is located between Superquinn on the Sundrive Road and Poddle Park in Kimmage.

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/braithwaite-community-garden/ ---
FURTHER READING
Infirmary Rd Community Garden
Infirmary Garden is a new community garden in the grounds of the old Isolation Hospital on the east side of Infirmary Road, Dublin 7, near O’Devaney Gardens. Very close to the Phoenix Park.
Serenity Community Garden
A small community garden that was initiated in March 2009. The plot is open to all, without any formal organisation to the plantings. Sunflowers tower over fruit bushes, herbs, flowers and vegetables. A composting facility was installed in June 2009. Gardening sessions run on Saturday afternoons and are open to…
Muck and Magic Community Garden
Sited on Dublin City Council land the garden is a small and beautiful oasis in the heart of the Ballymun Community. The garden started in 2011, when a local group, formed with the help of Global Action Plan, created a network of raised beds for growing vegetables. Since then, the…

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/finglas-community-garden/ ---
Finglas Forest Community Garden opened in 2006. The site is about 100m long by 5m wide. There are nine annual beds where gardeners grow potatoes, onions, garlic, cabbage and beetroot. The site is on the grounds of a National School. Terefore, it is secure and has access to water and a shed.
The garden, which was extended some years ago, holds one of Dublin’s first forest gardens. Apple, plum, cherry and pear trees grow happily, in the middle of soft-fruit bushes and perennials planted around them.
Location: in the grounds of St. Joseph’s National School, Barry Avenue, Finglas, Dublin 11.

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/glas-community-garden/ ---
GLAS Community Garden, formerly Virgin Mary CG, was opened in August 2012 and is sited on a piece of land owned by the St. Laurence O Toole Trust.
Location: Shangan Road, Ballymun, Dublin 9 within the grounds of Virgin Mary Church
Contact: maire@globalactionplan.ie
FURTHER READING
Notice and details of the 2016 Food Cycle on Saturday 2nd July. Routes and starting times for North and South Dublin Routes.
Notice and details of the 2020 AGM which will be followed with a lecture by Mary Montaut on "Gardening for Pollinators"
Notice and details of the 2014 Food Cycle on Saturday 14th June, including meeting times and North and South Dublin Routes.

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/featured-gardens/infirmary-rd-community-garden/ ---
Infirmary Garden is a new community garden in the grounds of the old Isolation Hospital on the east side of Infirmary Road, Dublin 7, near O’Devaney Gardens. Very close to the Phoenix Park.
It is a small, developing garden, set on a Council site.
Gallery
FURTHER READING
Santry Community Garden
The Santry Community Garden is a 4 ½ acre Victorian Walled Garden situated in the grounds of the Santry Demesne public park (in the heart of Santry Village, on the Old Swords Road, D9). The Santry Community Garden group was formed in 2010 and since then have completely transformed the…
Food Cycle 2013
Notice and details of the 2013 Food Cycle on Saturday 15th June, including meeting times and North and South Dublin Routes.
GLAS Community Garden
GLAS Community Garden, formerly Virgin Mary CG, was opened in August 2012 and is sited on a piece of land owned by the St. Laurence O Toole Trust. Location: Shangan Road, Ballymun, Dublin 9 within the grounds of Virgin Mary Church Contact: maire@globalactionplan.ie

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/featured-gardens/muck-and-magic-community-garden/ ---
Sited on Dublin City Council land the garden is a small and beautiful oasis in the heart of the Ballymun Community.
The garden started in 2011, when a local group, formed with the help of Global Action Plan, created a network of raised beds for growing vegetables.
Since then, the community garden has grown considerably. Currently it incorporates vegetable beds, a large polytunnel, an extensive composting site, a soft fruit area, ornamental beds, a large gazebo and an outdoor seating area with a barbeque.
In recent years, the garden has become wheelchair accessible with tarmac paths and a new sensory garden. Over time the community garden has facilitated adult groups with special needs to participate in the garden on a weekly basis. Visitors are welcome.
The outdoor space is also used for community events.
Baldoyle Racecourse Community Garden is located beside the wildlife conservation zone at Red Arches, the Coast. It has been designed in keeping with the natural habitat and ethos of ecological guardianship and commitment to organic practices.
Summer Row Community Garden started in a derelict area in 2010. The post provides details of location, map, link to Facebook page and main features of the garden.
The Hardwicke Street Garden Club has been cultivating the community garden for over half a decade. The garden consists of a kitchen garden space with eleven raised beds, packed with fruits and vegetables, a full size potting shed, and glass house area. The gardeners also manage some local green spaces…

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/featured-gardens/serenity-community-garden/ ---
A small community garden that was initiated in March 2009. The plot is open to all, without any formal organisation to the plantings. Sunflowers tower over fruit bushes, herbs, flowers and vegetables. A composting facility was installed in June 2009. Gardening sessions run on Saturday afternoons and are open to the public.
The Serenity Community Garden exists to provide a garden amenity within Phibsborough, centred at Great Western Villas. The core aims of the community garden project are to provide a garden resource available to all members of the community, a green waste composting facility, an amenity for social development, an amenity for environmental education and the promotion of biodiversity. The project also seeks to increase the pride of place within the neighbourhood and to improve the appearance of the garden and surrounding streets and green spaces.
Location: Great Western Villas, Phibsborough, Dublin 8.
Great Western Square and District Community Garden from Robert Moss on Vimeo:
Some pictures from the first years of the garden 2010):
The Santry Community Garden is a 4 ½ acre Victorian Walled Garden situated in the grounds of the Santry Demesne public park (in the heart of Santry Village, on the Old Swords Road, D9). The Santry Community Garden group was formed in 2010 and since then have completely transformed the…
Residents have used the square for allotments since the 1st World War. The land is now owned by Dublin City Council. It was re-landscaped in March 2009, with community flower beds and seating areas. A Community herb garden is planned. As an amenity the allotments and community garden are for…

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/featured-gardens/st-annes-city-farm-and-ecology-centre/ ---
St. Anne’s City Farm is a community lead city farm run total by volunteers inside St. Anne’s Park, Raheny, Dublin 5. The farm has weekly tours & classes. It also give the community a chance to work on the farm as a team. To learn everything from animal care to suitability.
Gallery:
Location:
67 All Saints Rd, Clontarf East, Raheny, Dublin 5, D05 Y102. inside St. Anne’s Park on the All Saints Road beside St. Anne’s Allotments.
The Rose Festival at St Anne's Park was a success, featuring a meeting with local groups and representatives. Attendees are encouraged to visit the stall at the Biodiversity section. A raffle for an organic fruit and vegetable hamper will be held tomorrow, thanks to volunteers and support from Dublin City…
Composting course running this summer in St Anne's Park provided by DCC. A great opportunity for community gardens North of the Liffey in the Dublin County Council area to avail of master composter training! Spaces are limited, but there is still time to register. Get in touch with course presenter…
The food cycle takes place as part of "Bike Week" every year in the summer. Cyclists visit many Community Gardens along their route. The post includes Route Maps and meeting times details.

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/summer-row-community-garden/ ---
In 2010, the residents of Summer Street decided to give purpose to an empty patch of land tucked away behind the street. The space had become a dumping area.
The resulting Summer Row Community Garden is a communal space. Residents from the surrounding area, join the garden on a voluntary basis. Members grow herbs, flowers, fruits and vegetables. These are harvested and shared each week.
In addition, the garden committee organise community events that are held in the garden. There is a composting system on site, alongside water harvesting facilities. The rainfall water is collected from the polytunnel and neighbouring buildings. The collected water meets most of the garden’s requirements.
Organic growing is practised as much as possible.
Location: Summer Street North, D1. off the North Circular Road at the junction of Summerhill.
Address: Newcomen Court, North Strand, Dublin 3 (access via laneway between 42 and 43 North Strand Road). See Google map at the end of the page. Facebook / e-mail: mudislandcommunitygarden@gmail.com Mud Island is a volunteer led community garden in Dublin’s North East Inner City. It was developed on a derelict…
The Hardwicke Street Garden Club has been cultivating the community garden for over half a decade. The garden consists of a kitchen garden space with eleven raised beds, packed with fruits and vegetables, a full size potting shed, and glass house area. The gardeners also manage some local green spaces…

--- Additional page: https://www.dublincommunitygrowers.ie/all-gardens/featured-gardens/walk-community-gardens/ ---
Walk is an innovative, forward thinking organisation, that is renowned for leading change within the community and voluntary sector. The organization offers person centered services to over 200 people with disabilities in Dublin. It is highly recognised for its commitment to the provision of superior quality services.
WALK operates community gardens in order to promote community inclusion and a development programme for people with intellectual disabilities. Members participating learn to interact with other people in their community and other important life skills.
Location: Scoil Colm, Armagh Road, Crumlin, Dublin 12.
Walkinstown Green Community Garden: Green Kitchen Café, Walkinstown Green, Dublin 12
Walkinstown Green Social Enterprises Ltd (WSGEL)
WGSEL is part of the WALK family. The following video shows the transformation of a derelict building in Walkinstown Green into a wonderful community facility.
The objective of the WGSEL’s “Multi-Functional Community Resources Facility” is to provide a service that is inclusive and helps to break down barriers. The aim is to showcase the great ability people with disabilities have, and counterbalance perceived stigmas. The building area now hosts a Community Coffee Shop (The Green Kitchen), a Community Garden Centre (The Green Garden), a Men’s Shed workshop, Meeting Rooms (for use by other Community Groups) and a Training Centre.

Images: 33 image(s) available.