# Home - Capuchin Day Centre

URL: https://capuchindaycentre.ie/
Location: Ireland, Dublin, Dublin 8
Coordinates: 53.34, -6.27

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: government_funded
Popularity: high (score: 4)

Description: None

Full text:
Capuchin Day Centre
for homeless people
No-One Goes Hungry
The Capuchin Day Centre has been providing homeless supports in Dublin for over 57 years.
Founded in 1969 by Capuchin friar, Brother Kevin Crowley, and inspired by the spirit of St Francis Assisi, the Centre was set up to ‘relieve the hardship endured by homeless people.
Situated in Bow Street, Dublin 7, the Day Centre started out providing meals for the homeless in Dublin and has developed its services over the years to meet the presenting needs of those who come seeking food and support.
From hot meals, food parcels, showering facilities and clothing to medical, optical, dental and family services, the Capuchin Day Centre is committed to providing practical, meaningful support to those who seek help.
Those who come to the Day Centre for support are considered to be our guests. They are welcomed without judgement and are served on a “no questions asked” basis.
In line with the values of the Irish Capuchin Friars the Centre works on the principle that no one should go hungry and offers support that is non-judgemental, open to all, and places the dignity and respect of our guests at the heart of what we do.
OUR HELP IN NUMBERS
In 2025 we provided
Food and Meal Services
We serve approximately 350 guests for breakfast and 700 people for dinner each day and distribute over 1400 food parcels each week.
Medical and Hygiene Services
Our onsite team of clinical professionals supports the health and well-being of homeless people. We also provide washing and showering facilities, haircuts and clean clothes.
Family Support Services
From infant packs with baby formula and nappies, to children’s toys, school bags and books, we help ease the broader needs of families in food poverty. These essential interventions are complemented by health-related supports from our onsite clinical team and initiatives that promote social inclusion by our family support service.

Images: 10 image(s) available.