# Dublin Northwest Partnership - Community Garden

URL: https://dublinnorthwest.ie/community-garden
Location: Ireland, Dublin, Dublin 11
Coordinates: 53.38, -6.29

Type: community_garden
Operational level: government_funded
Popularity: low (score: 0)

Description: The Local Community, Dublin Northwest Partnership, Dublin City Council and Crosscare came together to establish a community garden on waste ground on the Tolka Valley Road.

Full text:
Community Garden
DNP, Dublin City Council, Crosscare and the local community came together to establish Greenview Community Garden on waste ground on Tolka Valley Road, Finglas South. Work on the garden began in July 2014 and involved workers from our Tús programme. It was officially opened by the President of Ireland, Michael D. Higgins in April 2015.
The garden provides an attractive and interesting venue for hosting training and community events. The garden also has 54 allotments, rented out annually to residents and community groups. There is also a BBQ and large patio area that is used by our allotment holders and community groups to host social gatherings.
There are 3 polytunnels in the garden which provide a protected environment in which we can grow crops that would otherwise struggle outdoors at certain times during the year.
Greenview has purpose built composting bays ensuring that we can compost all our fruit and vegetable waste. To increase biodiversity, we introduced a pollinator friendly garden, bird boxes, bug hotels and log piles to advance this. The Garden Manager, Billy Creevy, and his team currently support a community and school-based pilot Leaf Mulch Project (See video above).
Workshops
Horticulture workshops are held regularly in the garden. The workshops offer practical and useful advice to all who use the garden. Workshops include:
Planning your allotment
Rotation of crops and protecting crops from pests
Pruning trees and shrubs
Composting
How to encourage biodiversity in your garden
Healthy Food Made Easy cooking programme
For further information about our Community Garden
or availing of an allotment please contact Billy Creevy

Images: 10 image(s) available.