# About Us | About SeniorCare and its founders

URL: https://www.seniorcare.ie/about-us/
Location: Ireland, Dublin, Dublin 22
Coordinates: 53.34, -6.39

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: unknown
Popularity: high (score: 3)

Description: SeniorCare was founded in 2007 by Sheila and Conor Ebbs. Read some background information here on the website and its founders.

Full text:
About Us
About SeniorCare
SeniorCare was co-founded and launched by Sheila and Conor Ebbs in 2007. The idea for the website sprang from concerns about the declining health and mobility of Sheila’s mother, who wished to remain in her own home for as long as possible. The online search for homecare services and entitlements was very difficult with information spread over many separate websites.
Sheila and Conor’s vision for SeniorCare.ie was that it should be a one-stop information directory, easily accessed by clients, their families, carers and healthcare professionals. The website has grown in traffic and online visibility every year since its launch and is the only comprehensive Irish online resource for senior care services and information.
A vast redesign was undertaken in 2017 to upgrade the website to a responsive information hub. New additions include:
- a searchable information section covering entitlements, caregiving, dementia, and more;
- a helpful services section displaying information on helplines for older people and their loved ones;
- an upgraded online directory of services, map-enabled, with secure logins and editing capabilities for businesses
About Us
Photo by Melanie Vann
Conor graduated from UCD with a BA in Computer Science in 2003 and recently completed an MA in International Relations. He worked for 9 years as head of digital marketing with a web development agency in Dublin and manages SeniorCare.ie on a daily basis. He has been a songwriter and performer for 15 years and loves to read, write, travel, and learn.
Sheila worked for 20 years as a primary school teacher in St. Colmcilles National School, Knocklyon. She also taught children with special needs before retiring in 2010. She loves to read, write, paint and travel. Her education experience is invaluable to the development of SeniorCare.ie.

Images: 10 image(s) available.