# Home - Slow Food Ireland

URL: https://slowfoodireland.com/
Location: Ireland, Dublin, Dublin 2
Coordinates: 53.34, -6.24

Type: food_sharing
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: high (score: 5)

Description: None

Full text:
Slow Food Ireland
Good, Clean & FairConnecting People Through Food
Slow Food Ireland brings together the communities of like-minded people who champion the ethos of good, clean and fair food in Ireland. Hosting regular events, highlighting food businesses and producers who honour these values, supporting food and community initiatives and celebrating great Irish food with our members and the public.
What we do
Slow Food is a global grassroots organization that envisions a world in which all people can access and enjoy food that is good for them, good for those who grow it and good for the planet.
A non-profit member-supported association, Slow Food was founded in 1989 to counter the rise of fast food and fast life, the disappearance of local food traditions and to encourage people to be aware about the food they eat, where it comes from, how it tastes and how our food choices affect the rest of the world.
Slow Food believes that everyone has a fundamental right to the pleasure of quality food and consequently the responsibility to protect the heritage of biodiversity, culture and knowledge that make this pleasure possible.
Slow Food has over 100,000 members joined in 1,500 communities – worldwide, as well as a network of 2,000 Terra Madre food communities who practice small-scale and sustainable production of quality foods. Thanks to its projects and activities, Slow Food involves millions of people in 150 countries.
Can you see the Deer?
SMARTDEER is research project by UCD aimed at producing an up-to-date map of deer species in Ireland. Currently, we do not know how many deer there are in Ireland and where they are all located, so we need your help. There are four species of deer in Ireland - Sika,...
Cheese 2021 Takes Shape
Slow Food HQ, August 31 – The organization of Cheese 2021, to be held in Bra, Italy, from September 17 to 20, is now in its final phase. Despite the challenges caused by the evolving health situation, the biennial event's organizers, the City of Bra and Slow Food, are...
Paula McIntyre’s Rare Breed Pork Ragu with Gnudie
Paula McIntyre's Rare Breed Pork Ragu with Gnudie This recipe takes time but is well worth it. Start the ricotta process the night before – either make your own, or drain excess liquid out of shop bought ricotta, full details below. The Ragu requires long, slow...
My Perfect Sourdough
My Perfect Sourdough Making sourdough bread is a two day process so I have included timings for the actual work involved. I use a cast iron round casserole dish, like Le Creuset, but a Pyrex style glass dish with lid would work just as well. 600 g strong...
Live Facebook and Twitter feed
Become a Member Today!
Join a network of a million activists across more than 150 countries.
Support more than 10,000 projects protecting biodiversity.
Defend Good, Clean and Fair food for all.

Images: 8 image(s) available.