# Home - ASSOCIACIÓ VEGANA DE CATALUNYA ASSOCIACIÓ VEGANA DE CATALUNYA

URL: https://associacioveganacatalunya.org/
Location: Spain, Barcelona, Sants-Montjuïc
Coordinates: 41.36, 2.15

Type: other
Operational level: ngo_led
Popularity: high (score: 1)

Description: Associació Vegana de Catalunya is a leading voice for veganism and animal welfare in Catalonia. We promote animal rights, sustainability, workshops, events, and a plant-based lifestyle to create a better future for all.

Full text:
QUÈ FEM
Organitzem tallers, cursos de cuina, xerrades, entrevistes, esdeveniments culturals, el Vegan Fest® i els Barcelona Vegan Awards®.
RECOLZA L’ASSOCIACIÓ AMB UN DONATIU
Organitzem tallers, cursos de cuina, xerrades, entrevistes, esdeveniments culturals, el Vegan Fest® i els Barcelona Vegan Awards®.
RECOLZA L’ASSOCIACIÓ AMB UN DONATIU
Input your search keywords and press Enter.
Associació Vegana de Catalunya © 2026
Notificacions
associacioveganacatalunya.org
Your data is your property and we support your right to privacy and transparency.
To provide you the best experience on our website, we use cookies or similar technologies. Select a data access level to decide for which purposes we may use and share your data.
Highest level of privacy. Data accessed for necessary basic operations only. Data shared with 3rd parties to ensure the site is secure and works on your device
Balanced experience. Data accessed for content personalisation and site optimisation. Data shared with 3rd parties may be used to track you and store your preferences for this site.
Highest level of personalisation. Data accessed to make ads and media more relevant. Data shared with 3rd parties may be use to track you on this site and other sites you visit.
Consent Preferences
Use the toggles below to specify your data sharing purposes for this website.
Protection & Metrics
View your consent record, and the list of 3rd parties blocked and allowed based on your settings.
Consent Metrics
| Consent ID | — |
| Date of Consent | — |
| Data Access Level | — |
| Purpose Categories | — |
| Duration of Consent | — |
Privacy Protection
Services Blocked
- —
Services Allowed
- Google Fonts

Images: 4 image(s) available.