# Restaurant La Pau

URL: https://www.restaurantlapau.com/en/
Location: Spain, Barcelona, Ciutat Vella
Coordinates: 41.3819988, 2.1765456

Type: other
Operational level: community_led
Popularity: low (score: 0)

Description: La Pau is a gastronomic and social project that offers all its diners a unique experience. This is possible thanks to a variety of factors that make La Pau a truly special place.

Full text:
La Pau is a gastronomic and social project that offers all its diners a unique experience. This is possible thanks to a variety of factors that make La Pau a truly special place.
The restaurant La Pau is a social initiative for generating employment and gives continuity to the El Llindar School of New Opportunities.
The culinary creations of La Pau find their inspiration in traditional Catalan cuisine, using slow cooking techniques with locally sourced produce.
La Pau is a gastronomic and social project that offers all its diners a unique experience. This is possible thanks to a variety of factors that make La Pau a truly special place.
La Pau is the result of the alliance between El Llindar and ENJOYBCN.
The culinary creations of La Pau find their inspiration in traditional Catalan cuisine, using slow cooking techniques with locally sourced produce.
Una cookie es un pequeño archivo que se coloca en su computadora cuando visita un sitio web. Usamos cookies tanto necesarias como opcionales para brindarle la mejor experiencia posible y para personalizar los anuncios. Haga clic en 'Aceptar' para permitir que todos estos continúen comprando o en 'Administrar' para controlarlos individualmente. Para leer nuestra Política de Cookies.
Este sitio web utiliza cookies para mejorar su experiencia mientras navega por el sitio web. De estas, las cookies que se clasifican como necesarias se almacenan en su navegador, ya que son esenciales para el funcionamiento de las funcionalidades bás...
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Cookie
Duration
Description
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional
11 months
The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
viewed_cookie_policy
11 months
The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.

Images: 10 image(s) available.